HIGHER GRADE
(1947)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Choose one of the following plays: Richard II, Henry V, As You Like It, Twelfth Night, Coriolanus, The Tempest, and answer this question about it: What person or persons in it, other than the hero and heroine, specially excite your interest, and why?
2. Does Puck or Lorenzo or Horatio or Macduff or Kent play an essential part in the plot of the drama in which he figures? Could his part have been omitted without great loss to the interest of the story?
3. Answer any one of the following: Why did Shakespeare call the play of Julius Caesar by the name of a character who is not of the first importance in it? What do we learn about the situation in the Danish court from the opening scene of Hamlet? How does it start off the play and set the tone for what follows? How does Shakespeare maintain the interest in Macbeth after the crisis of the play?
4. There are certain characters among the Canterbury Pilgrims whom Chaucer respects and wants us to respect, not to laugh at. Who are they, and why did Chaucer regard them differently from the rest?
5. Explain what are the chief sources of interest and appeal in one of the following Canterbury Tales: the Knight’s, the Clerk’s, the Nun’s Priest’s, the Pardoner’s.
6. Choose one poem out of each of the two following groups of verse tales and bring out as strongly as you can obvious differences between them. (1) Isabella, Sohrab and Rustum, The Ancient Mariner, The Lady of Shalott, Marmion. (2) Tam o’Shanter, Peter Grimes, Michael, The Rape of the Lock, The Pied Piper of Hamelin.
7. Choose a pair of the following, one from each group, and contrast the pair you choose—the one as a story told mainly for something more than the narrative interest, and the other as a story told mainly as a story: (1) The Faerie Queene, Paradise Lost, The Pilgrim’s Progress, Gulliver’s Travels, Rasselas, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, The Man who was Thursday; and (2) Robinson Crusoe, Old Mortality, Rob Roy, Pride and Prejudice, Jane Eyre, The Master of Ballantrae, Kipps, The Good Companions.
8. What are the kinds of subjects about which any one of the following essayists writes, and what is his attitude to them and to his reader? Bacon, Addison, Goldsmith, Lamb, Hazlitt, Carlyle, Macaulay, Robert Lynd.
9. If you wanted to commend one of the following poems to a reader of the same age and tastes as yourself: L’Allegro, An Elegy written in a Country Churchyard, Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage, La Belle Dame sans Merci, Adonais, Morte D’Arthur, My Last Duchess, Dauber, what reasons would you give for his or her reading the poem? What things in the poem (passages, phrases, ideas, subject-matter, and so on) would you pick out to illustrate and support your recommendation?
10. Attempt a character sketch of one of the following: Sir Anthony Absolute, Jeanie Deans, Emma, Alan Breck, Sydney Carton, Mrs. Proudie, Adam Bede, Fancy Day, Mr. Polly, Dr. Thorndyke. (Do not merely describe the plot or the part played in it by the character you choose.)
11. Choose Burns or Wordsworth or Keats or Tennyson, and illustrate from poems by the poet you choose his skill and precision in describing natural objects and appearances (large or small, animate or inanimate).
12. What do you know about the life and works of any author whom you have read at home and who is a favourite of yours? What qualities in his or her work make a special appeal to you?
13. Mention (quoting where you can) and comment on passages in the Bible that are remarkable examples of each of the following: pure narrative; the dramatic; lyrical beauty; and moving eloquence.
