LOWER GRADE
(1947)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of part of the British Isles: Draw two lines across Scotland to denote the most important fault lines. Over each of the regions into which Scotland is thus divided write a suitable descriptive name for the region. Shade all areas which have an average annual rainfall of less than 30 inches. Write WHEAT over two areas where wheat is grown fairly extensively. Indicate the routes followed by all the main railway lines from England to Edinburgh and to Glasgow. Mark and name two towns important for the manufacture of linen. Insert the regional names Buchan and Galloway. Write F over two areas noted for fruit farming.
2. On the accompanying map of N. and S. America: Name the rivers Mackenzie, Ohio, Orinoco, Parana. Name Chile, Alberta, Jamaica, Uruguay. Delimit carefully two areas of tropical grasslands and two of temperate grasslands, marking each “tropical” or “temperate” as the case may be. Name each of the grasslands shown. Insert the 32° F. January isotherm (reduced to sea-level). Write O over two areas which are major producers of mineral oil, one in N. America and one in S. America.
3. Examine the contour map on page 4 of the map sheet. The scale is 1:100,000. What does this mean? On this scale, how many miles (correct to one decimal place) are represented by 1 inch? Write, in about ten lines, a general description of the build of the area shown. Suggest reasons why the settlement, N, has become the main town of the area.
4. Give an explanatory account of life throughout the year either in the Barren Lands (Arctic fringe) of Canada or in the Steppes of the Asiatic territories of the U.S.S.R.
5. What do you understand by the terms isobar and isohyet? Temperature maps are sometimes marked “actual,” sometimes “reduced to sea-level.” What is the difference? From January to July, any particular isotherm moves north and moves more rapidly over land than over water. Give an explanation of the two facts italicized in this quotation.
6. Write a short essay describing (with examples) how mountains influence human affairs.
7. Show how the journeys of three of the following extended Europe’s knowledge of the geography of the world: Marco Polo; Vasco da Gama; Magellan; Orellana; Cook; Mungo Park.
8. Quote the mean January temperature, the mean July temperature, and the mean annual rainfall of the area in which your school is situated. State also the relatively wet and relatively dry months. Name an area of England or Wales which has a climate rather different from that of your own area. Contrast the farming activities of the two areas, showing how the differences are determined by climate and (possibly) by relief.
9. Draw a sketch-map of the north of England to include Lancashire, Yorkshire, and the counties to the north. Mark carefully the upland areas and the coalfields, naming each. Write notes on the industrial development of one of the coalfields, mentioning the main industrial towns; and the importance of one of the gaps between or through the upland areas shown.
10. Three of the main imports of South Wales are wheat, timber, and metal ores. From which ports are each of these cargoes likely to come, and to which ports do they go? What are the precise needs which these cargoes serve?
11. Draw a sketch-map of Europe showing the continent divided into five or six climatic regions. Give a suitable name to the climatic type of each of the regions, and write notes on the climatic characteristics of two of the regions.
12. Select two areas of Europe, each of considerable size, one with a very high density of industrial population, the other with a very high density of agricultural population, and explain the high density in each case.
13. “Fortunate in her coastlines, France is unfortunate in her land frontiers.” Discuss this statement, assuming pre-1939 boundaries.
14. Divide one of the following into farming regions, and write explanatory notes on the agriculture of each of the regions. Illustrate by a sketch-map: The Mississippi-Missouri basin; The Indo-Gangetic Plain; South Island, New Zealand; Africa south of Orange River and Durban, i.e., Cape Province and Southern Natal.
15. Japan is sometimes called “the Britain of the East.” What are the striking parallels in the geography of the two countries, and what are the notable differences?
16. Write notes on three of the following: the “White Australia” policy; Artesian water supplies in Australia; the Great Barrier Reef; Australian forests; agricultural products of the Pacific coastland of Queensland.
