HIGHER GRADE
1955
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition of about three foolscap pages in length on any one of the following subjects: (a) What attractions—historical, civic, industrial, scenic—would you take a visitor from another country to see in your town or village or county? (b) “Myself ten years hence”. (c) Do you think that it is a good thing for young men to put in a period of national service? Or: Do you think that young women as well as young men should be compelled to put in a period of national service? (d) A description of any one of the following: a visit to a foreign country as a member of a school party; an industrial exhibition; your ideal classroom; a street accident; the best hour of the day; your most amusing experience. (e) “Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war.” Using this quotation as a text, describe some of the benefits that mankind has obtained from the work done in any one of the following fields: medicine, exploration, mechanical invention, social reform.
2. Read through the passage printed above and then answer the following questions on it: (a) Explain briefly but clearly the meaning of the following phrases as they are used in the passage: his effect upon the universe; exemplify his true character; the degree of his deficiencies; on this side the flood. What is meant by ancient heroes? Illustrate by giving one example. (b) Give the meaning of the following words as they are used in the passage: species; talents; practicable. What is the origin of the use of the word talents? Give the opposites of the words defects and vices. Suggest a single noun that means the story of one’s own life written by oneself, and a single adjective that means before the flood. (c) State the kind of each of the following clauses: what were the true limits of his talents; though it might be dull; as will make it expressive. Choose from the passage one example of each of the following: an adjectival phrase; an adverbial phrase of place; a gerund. Comment briefly on the use of will in what we will tell, and on the use of shall in their characteristic elements shall be shown. (d) Express in your own words, as tersely and intelligibly as you can, the substance or drift of the last sentence. (e) Make a summary of the passage in two paragraphs, bringing out clearly the distinction between the two kinds of biography referred to.
3. Combine the following statements into a compact, well-constructed paragraph: The eagle drew near with his prey—he saw his mate winging some way off—a large duck hung from her talons—they met at the edge of the nest—their half-hedged nestlings thrust up gaping beaks to greet them—the parent birds fed choice morsels to these beaks—the nestlings were only about half the size of their parents—their appetites were prodigious—they devoured their meal greedily—the food disappeared in a few moments—their hunger was assuaged—the old birds flew off to forage for themselves—they left behind on the threshold of their home a heap of bones and feathers.
4. (a) Write a short letter to a newspaper (local or national) in reply to a suggestion that boys and girls should refuse to surrender their seats to their elders in crowded buses or trams. Or: (b) Write a short letter to the manager of the local cinema asking that a larger proportion of British films should be shown.
