LOWER GRADE
(1920)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Place the following events in the century appropriate to each on the accompanying table: The Reign of Malcolm Canmore; the Synod of Whitby; the Defence of Lucknow; the Third Crusade; the rebellion of Monmouth; the Black Death; the death of John Knox; the landing of St. Augustine; the battle of Stirling Bridge; the South Sea Bubble; the battle of Poitiers; the Capture of Quebec; the revolt of the Netherlands; the battle of Sedan; the death of Cromwell; the battle of Sauchieburn.
2. (a) Who was King of Scots in the reign of Richard I. of England? (b) What King of England captured James I. of Scotland? (c) Who was King of England at the date of the battle of Flodden? (d) Who was King of France during the reign of Queen Anne? (e) Who was King of Prussia at the time of the Seven Years’ War? (f) Who was Emperor of the French at the time of the Crimean War?
3. What part was played in Scottish history by (a) St. Columba, (b) Macbeth, (c) the Black Douglas?
4. Why was Stirling a more important place than Glasgow in the Middle Ages? When and how did Glasgow become the largest of Scottish cities?
5. State briefly the most important events of any two of the following reigns—David II., James II., James IV., Mary Queen of Scots.
6. Give a short account of any two of the following: the career of Andrew Melville; the attempt of the Scots to restore Charles II. in 1650-51; the “Killing Time”; the causes of the failure of Prince Charles Edward in 1745-46.
7. In what poems or novels does Sir Walter Scott depict any one of the following: the Scottish War of Independence; the career of the Duke of Rothesay; the character of James V.; the Regency of Murray? Give a brief account of what you have read in Scott’s writings about the subject you select.
8. What do you know of the condition of the Highlands (a) before and (b) after the Jacobite Rebellion of 1745?
9. Tell the story of the Disruption of 1843.
10. Give some account of any two of the following: King Saul, Solon, Pericles, Hannibal, the Emperor Augustus, Mahomet, the Black Prince, Protector Somerset, Gustavus Adolphus, Peter the Great, Captain Cook.
11. What were the causes of civil war in England (a) under Stephen and (b) under Henry VI.?
12. What events in the history of England are connected with any three of the following: Tenchebrai, Calais, Agincourt, Virginia, La Rochelle, Jamaica?
13. At what period did the English become a seafaring nation? Tell anything you know about English seamen in the time of the Tudors.
14. How did Charles I. make enemies in England? Tell briefly the causes of the outbreak of the great Civil War.
15. Write notes on any three of the following: Declaration of Breda; the Clarendon Code; the Trial of the Seven Bishops; the capture of Gibraltar; the policy of Walpole.
16. Tell briefly how British power came to be established either in Canada or in India.
17. Explain how it came about that Spain fought against Britain at Trafalgar, and Britain fought on behalf of Spain in the Peninsular War. Tell the story of the Peninsular War up to the battle of Corunna.
18. Give some account of any two of the following: James Watt, George Canning, Richard Cobden, Sir Colin Campbell (Lord Clyde), Benjamin Disraeli (Lord Beaconsfield), General Botha.
