LOWER GRADE
(1918)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Place the following events in the century appropriate to each: The rebellion of Simon de Montfort; the death of the Emperor Charles V; the landing of St. Augustine; the Treaty of Wedmore; the reign of Malcolm Canmore; the battle of Plassey; the institution of the Danegeld; the Crusade of Richard I; the Thirty Years’ War; the Relief of Lucknow; the Synod of Whitby; the death of Joan of Arc; Magna Charta; the battle of Bannockburn; the birth of Sir Walter Scott; the death of Oliver Cromwell.
2a. State three reasons why Scotland was richer in the nineteenth century than in the eighteenth.
2b. State three reasons why the British Empire must possess a strong navy.
2c. State three causes that contributed to the victory gained by the American Colonies in the eighteenth century.
3. How and when was Scotland converted to Christianity?
4. Draw a rough sketch-map of the Borders, showing the position of the Solway, the River Tweed, and the Cheviot Hills. Mark four places and write a short note about each.
5. Tell the story of Mary, Queen of Scots, from her return to Scotland to her flight to England.
6. Give a short account of the Solemn League and Covenant; the massacre of Glencoe; the Darien Scheme.
7. In what poems or novels does Sir Walter Scott depict the condition of Scotland in the reigns of Robert III or James V; the career of Robert Bruce; the exploits of the Covenanters?
8. Why did the Jacobite party find adherents in Scotland more readily than in England? What attempts did they make to overthrow the house of Hanover, and why did they fail?
9. Name three Scotsmen who did great things for Scotland, and justify your choice of one.
10. Give an account of two of the following: Isaiah, Solon, Pericles, Hannibal, Cicero, Judas Maccabaeus, Alfred the Great, John Calvin, Archbishop Cranmer, Drake, Gustavus Adolphus, Captain Cook, Napoleon III.
11. What circumstances led to the Norman conquest of England, and how far was it fortunate for England?
12. What events in English history are connected with Calais, Agincourt, and Orleans?
13. To what centuries do the inventions of gunpowder, printing, and the steam engine belong? What was the effect of each on Britain?
14. Describe the foreign policy of Queen Elizabeth.
15. Narrate the events leading to the Restoration of 1660 or the Revolution of 1688.
16. How did Great Britain come to possess Cape Colony? Give an account of the growth of British dominion in South Africa.
17. Why did Napoleon describe Great Britain as his principal enemy?
18. Give an account of two of the following: George Canning; Dr. Chalmers; Lord John Russell; Elizabeth Barrett Browning; Lord Tennyson; Lord Wolseley.
