HIGHER GRADE
(1923)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER 1
1. The accompanying map shows parts of Lochs Long and Lomond and the northern extremity of the Gare Loch: Name one example of each of the following: a through valley, a rocky peak, a hanging valley. State clearly how you recognise each of these land forms on the map, and write notes on the probable mode of origin of through valleys. Describe the course of the railway from Garelochhead to the northern limit of the sheet, pointing out the chief advantages of the route selected. Suggest reasons for the fact that road and railway sometimes run side by side and sometimes diverge. Write a description of the Douglas Water, noting the position of the water-partings of the head-stream and the lateral tributaries. Show what conclusions as to the characters of the lateral valleys you can draw from the information given on the map. Write notes on the position of Arrochar and Garelochhead.
2. What is meant by the scale of a map? A certain sketch-map has no scale attached, but you know that a railway station shown is precisely 1,320 yards from a village, and the distance between the two on the map is 1 inch. What is the scale of the map? Would a map on a scale of 1/20,000 be on a larger or a smaller scale than this map? Give reasons.
3. Give a careful comparative account either of the Atlantic (Oceanic) and the Mediterranean types of climate as represented in Europe, or of the continental type as represented in Siberia and the monsoon type as represented in China. Show, in the case selected, the connection between the differences in climate and the differences in natural vegetation and cultivated crops.
4. Name three important British ports on the North Sea (excluding London) and three important Continental ports also on the North Sea. State precisely the position of one British and one Continental example, and give a reasoned account of the trade of each.
5. Discuss as fully as you can the causes which determine density of population in Scotland. Name some areas with a very sparse population and indicate reasons for this.
6. What is a fiord coast? Describe carefully one example of such a coast, indicating the favourable sites for villages or towns and discussing the occupations of the inhabitants. Illustrate by a sketch-map.
7. Draw a sketch-map of the Nile or of the Mississippi or Ganges. Show the chief tributaries and three important towns; and indicate by suitable symbols the chief products in the various parts of the river’s course. Add a note explaining the symbols you use.
8. Give a careful account of one transcontinental railway, explaining clearly its value to the country—or countries—through which it runs.
9. Select one of the following: Czecho-Slovakia, Yugoslavia, New Poland, Greater Rumania. In the case selected state generally the territories included, indicate the racial composition of the population, and describe briefly the natural resources. Name the capital.
10. Give an account, illustrated by a sketch-map, either of the island of Ceylon or of Tasmania. Refer especially to the physical features, the climate and the products.
11. Write a short historical essay on the character and routes of the trade between Europe and the Far East, arranging your material under three heads: the period down to the end of the fifteenth century, till the opening of the Suez Canal, to the present day.