LOWER GRADE
1913
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Place the following events in their chronological order, noting in each case the century in which it occurred: The Great Rebellion against Charles I.; the Jacobite Risings; the Battle of Agincourt; the repulse of the Spanish Armada; the Repeal of the Corn Laws; the Battle of Flodden; the Siege of Ladysmith; the Wars of the Roses; the Declaration of American Independence; the foundation of the University of St. Andrews; the mission of St. Augustine to the English; the Battle of Trafalgar; the foundation of the House of Commons in England; the union of the Scots and Picts under Kenneth MacAlpine; the Treaty of Falaise, between Henry II. and William the Lyon; the Battle of Plassey.
2. Explain briefly, but clearly, the following terms: Puritan, Covenanter, Presbyterian, Franchise, Cabinet, Budget.
3. What various peoples have combined to form the Scottish nation? Which of these peoples seems to you to have played the greatest part in Scottish history?
4. Explain the importance in Scottish history of the reigns of Malcolm II., Malcolm III. (Canmore), and David I.
5. What notable events do you associate with any six of the following places: Carham, Falkirk, Norham, Prestonpans, Philiphaugh, Fotheringay, Dunbar, Perth, Bothwell Brig?
6. When and why was the Franco-Scottish alliance formed, and when and why did it come to an end?
7. When and why did Jacobitism decline in Scotland?
8. Give some account of any two of the following: Pericles, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Mohammed, Charles the Great, Erasmus, Dupleix, Warren Hastings, Lord Palmerston, Lord Roberts.
9. Explain the allusions in any four of the following passages: (a) But there’s a saying very old and true, "If that you will France win, Then with Scotland first begin." For once the eagle England being in prey, To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs. (b) Hath she forgot already that brave prince, Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since, Stabb’d in my angry mood at Tewkesbury? (c) There were fifty thousand Highlandmen A-marching to Harlaw. (d) "O, were you ever a soldier?" Sir David Lesly said. "O yes, I was at Solway Flow Where we were all betrayed." (e) On Evesham’s plain is Montfort slain. (f) When that great fleet invincible against her bore The richest spoils of Mexico, the stoutest hearts of Spain. (g) Six thousand veterans practised in war’s game, Tried men, at Killiecrankie were array’d Against an equal host that wore the plaid, Shepherds and herdsmen. (h) This is he who ... Round affrighted Lisbon drew The treble works, the vast designs Of his laboured rampart-lines.
10. How do you account for the fact that by the reign of Edward III. the distinction between Norman and Englishman had disappeared?
11. What achievements do you associate with the following names: The Black Prince, Caxton, Drake, Monk, Rodney, George Washington?
12. State what you know about—the Pilgrim Fathers, Pride’s Purge, the Letters of Junius, the Reform Act of (1832).
13. How were Napoleon’s plans frustrated in each case by Nelson’s victories at the Nile, Copenhagen, Trafalgar?
14. Describe the character and the political career of Mr. Gladstone.
