HIGHER GRADE
(1919)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. The accompanying map of the British Isles shows corrected barometric readings at certain stations the morning after a great storm. Draw on the map isobars at every tenth of an inch from 28.9 in. to 29.7 in. inclusive, and write the word low over the area of lowest pressure on the map. Describe briefly the distribution of pressure as shown on the map, and suggest a reason for the fact that the storm of the previous day was especially felt off Land’s End and South-West Ireland. The sketch-map shows a Scottish sea-loch, the dotted lines indicating depths of 100 and 150 feet below sea-level: (a) Point out the peculiarities of the depth conditions, and show on the map the probable course of the 50-ft. depth contour; (b) Compare the gradient of the coach-road between the points A. and B with that of the footpath between C and D; (c) Calculate the height of the peak and write the result close to X; (d) Mark, by clusters of dots, three areas which seem to you suitable sites for villages, numbering them I, II, III, and add in your examination-book a brief statement of your reasons in each case.
2. The island of Sicily and the state of Virginia are in approximately the same latitude, but there is a marked difference in climate. Describe shortly the climate of each area, account for the differences, and show how these differences are reflected in differences in natural vegetation and cultivated crops.
3. Draw up a detailed programme of a two-days’ walking tour, the object of which is the study of the geography of some part of Scotland. State how you propose to reach your starting point from your school, how you mean to return, and the precise observations you hope to make. Illustrate by a diagram or rough sketch-map of the area to be visited.
4. Throughout much of England the rocks are geologically younger than those of Scotland. Make clear, by a comparison of a characteristic English area of younger rocks with a characteristic Scottish area of older rocks, the effects of this difference on relief, scenery, and the uses to which the land is put.
5. Describe the zones of vegetation found in travelling from Northern Canada and Northern Russia to the southern border of the country in each case, explaining to what extent it is true that the zones correspond in the two regions. Add a note on the inhabitants and their occupations in the most northerly zone of each country.
6. Give some account of six of the more important land animals of the New World, distinguishing those that are native from those that have been introduced from Europe. Indicate some of the reasons why the latter were introduced, and why they have thriven in various parts of the continent.
7. Draw a sketch-map of the Black Sea with the Sea of Azov and the connection with the Mediterranean. Show by shading the relief of the surrounding area, and mark and name the mouths of the great rivers entering the two seas. Mark and name also four important ports, insert the terminal segment of a great railway trunk entering each, and write at the end of each railway line the name of the area with which it is connected. Insert also the meridian of 30° E.
8. Discuss the chief ways in which goods can be transported at present in the interior of Africa, and indicate the relation of each method of transport to the relief, climate, and economic and other conditions in the different parts of the continent.
9. State the exact position and explain the importance of the following towns: Jerusalem, Baghdad, Aleppo, Damascus. Illustrate by a sketch-map.
10. Describe the course of the main Caledonian railway route from Aberdeen to Carlisle, and show clearly how its course is determined by the relief of the country traversed. Illustrate your answer by a sketch-map.
11. What were the motives which inspired the efforts made in the fifteenth century to find a seaway to India? Give, with brief notes, the names of two of the most famous navigators of the period. What was the first effect of the discovery of the seaway on trade in Europe?
