LOWER GRADE
(1895)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning.
3. Give a general analysis of lines 5-8 in the above passage, so as to show exactly how the clauses are related to one another.
4. Parse the words italicised in the above passage.
5. Give the plurals of axis, ox, sheep, thief, belief; the feminines of earl, hero, executor, abbot; the past participles of eat, take, sit, burst, bid; the exact difference in meaning between I wrote and I have written, I was writing and I have been writing; the various classes of pronouns, with the principal examples of each class.
6. Convey the exact sense of the following passage in simpler language, avoiding, as far as possible, the use of any words of classical origin.
7. Improve the following sentences, and give reasons for the alterations you make.
8. Write down a dozen or sixteen lines of any poem you know.
9. Give the authors, and approximate dates, of the following poems, and write an account of any one of them: The Cottar’s Saturday Night, John Gilpin, Il Penseroso, Dora, The Traveller, Duncan Gray, Hiawatha, The Lady of the Lake, We are Seven, The Pied Piper of Hamelin.
10. State about what time each of the following works was written, and by whom. Also describe two characters out of any one of these works: The Canterbury Tales, The Faerie Queene, Julius Caesar, As You Like It, The Pilgrim’s Progress.
11. Write a connected account of the leading events in the reign of any one of the following sovereigns: William I; Edward III; Henry V; Mary, Queen of Scots; James II; Anne; William IV.
12. Describe, so as to show their importance, any two events in the following list: The landing of Augustine in England, The cession of Lothian to the Scots, The Danish invasions, The Battle of Bouvines, The coming of the Friars, The Black Death and the Statute of Labourers, The Siege of Orleans, The Battle of Flodden, The Fall of Wolsey, Babington’s Plot, The Hampton Court Conference, Tonnage and Poundage, The Solemn League and Covenant, The Conventicle and Five Mile Acts, The Battle of the Boyne, The South Sea Bubble, The East India Company, The Gordon Riots, The Abolition of Slavery, The Ballot Act.
13. What do you know of any two of the following: The influence of the Norman Conquest, The origin of the Scottish War of Independence, The progress of the English Reformation from Henry VIII to Elizabeth, The career of Oliver Cromwell, The effects upon the English Constitution of the Revolution of 1688, The two Jacobite risings in the Eighteenth Century, The origin of the American War of Independence, The Acts by which the Franchise has been extended during the Nineteenth Century.
14. What are the chief mountain-systems of Great Britain? Where are the chief plains? Give the names of the rivers that drain them.
15. Contrast the east and the west coasts of Scotland.
16. Describe the course of the Rhine (or of the Danube); mention the six largest towns on its banks; and state in what the industry of each consists.
17. What are the chief cities on the Mediterranean? State what you know about five of them.
18. Write a brief account of the commerce of Cape Colony.
