LOWER GRADE
(1920)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition of about two pages on any one of the following subjects: (a) Hallowe’en. (b) My earliest recollections. (c) The story of the Spanish Armada, as it might have been related by a Spanish sailor who had been with it throughout, and had at last got back to Spain. (d) Some spring flowers.
2. Read the following poem carefully, and then answer the questions appended: (a) Describe the scene, briefly but exactly, in your own words. Begin thus: “One evening a number of men were sitting round a camp-fire.” (b) Where do you think the scene is laid? Why do you think so? (c) Were the men around the camp-fire soldiers? If not, what were they? Give reasons for your answer. (d) If the heading had told you nothing about the author of the poem, or the author of the book that was read by the camp-fire, what would you have gathered from the poem itself? (e) In what respects is it suggested that the fir-trees were like the men around the fire, and the men like the fir-trees?
3. (a) Give the precise meaning of the following expressions, as used in the above poem: “dim Sierras”; “minarets of snow”; “his pack’s scant treasure hands of listless leisure”; “some spell divine.” (b) Parse “Sierras” and “far” in line 3 of the above poem. Point out and explain the force of the prefix or suffix in each of the following words: “anew” (line 12), “twilight” (line 14), “gusty” (last line). (c) The opposite of “a natural barrier” is “an artificial barrier.” In each of the following phrases substitute for the italicised word a word which means just the opposite: a rare plant; a temporary assistant; an imaginary conversation; a trivial reason; the former alternative; the initial cost; passive resistance; gradual improvement; an absolute monarchy; an accidental blow. (d) Show how you would write the name and designation on an envelope addressed to each of the following: (1) A private gentleman. (2) A clergyman. (3) A business firm. (4) A young man living with his father whose Christian name is the same. (5) A schoolboy.
4. Answer any two of the following: (a) What two characters in Scott or what two in Stevenson might be taken as representing a typical Highlander and a typical Lowlander? Name the novel or novels in which they occur, and tell why you think each of the two typical. (b) Name five poems or ballads which deal with famous incidents in British history. In each case name the author (if known), and the period in which the poem or ballad was composed. Give a fuller account of any one of the five poems or ballads. (c) Parable. Fable. Allegory. What is meant by each of these terms? Give one example of each, and say what it illustrates. (d) From any play or story that you know select the scene which struck you as the most humorous or the most pathetic; describe it briefly, and tell why it struck you as specially humorous or pathetic.
