HIGHER GRADE
(1909)
HISTORY
PAPER: 2
1. In the skeleton chronological chart provided, place as many as you can of the following in the appropriate compartments: The Battle of Otterburn, the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the Thirty Years’ War, the capture of Quebec, the Repeal of the Corn Laws, the Wars of the Roses, the Berlin Conference, Foundation of St. Andrews University, the Cowrie Conspiracy, the Treaty of Northampton, the Darien Scheme, the War of the Spanish Succession, the Conquest of Peru, the Methodist Revival, the capture of Constantinople by the Turks.
2. It has been maintained that it would have been better for Scotland to have submitted to Edward I. What would she have gained thereby? And what should we have lost?
3. Give some facts which illustrate the state of Scotland as regards industry and commerce, education and literature in James Fourth’s reign.
4. Describe the situation of any three famous ruined abbeys, monasteries or cathedrals in Scotland. How did they come to be built where they are? And what led to their destruction?
5. Illustrate by three examples the part played by Scotsmen in building up the British Empire.
6. Describe the relations of Judea with either the great Empires of the East, Greece, or Rome.
7. What do you know of the state of Greece as revealed in the Homeric poems?
8. Of what period in Athenian history, and of what great names, is Milton thinking in his reference to "Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts And eloquence, native to famous wits"?
9. Give some account of the various stages in the conquest of Britain by the Romans. Why did they abandon the island in 410 A.D.?
10. Give some account of any two of the following: Solon, Miltiades, Demosthenes, Philip of Macedon, Pyrrhus, the elder Scipio, Catiline, Pompey, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius. Or give some account of any two of the following: Charles Martel, Rollo the Ganger, Saladin, the Black Prince, Charles the Bold, Sir David Lindsay, Cortez, Mary of Guise, Calvin, Gustavus Adolphus.
11. Sketch shortly the spread of Christianity in Britain up to the Synod of Whitby, with special reference to the parts played by Augustine and Columba.
12. Describe the origin of the English navy, and the part played by it either in the Hundred Years’ War, under the Commonwealth, or in the Napoleonic wars.
13. Give a clear account of any one of the following: the reign of Richard II.; the policy and career of Cardinal Wolsey; the career and fate of Robert, Earl of Essex; Chatham’s foreign policy; English politics from 1815 to 1832; European developments from 1848 to 1872.
14. Trace the course taken by the Reformation in England, and contrast this with its course in Scotland and in France.
15. Discuss the change in the relative positions of France and Britain as European Powers between 1660 and 1760.
16. What is meant by the Eastern Question? Through what phases has it passed since the Crimean War?
