Higher Grade
1948
ENGLISH
PAPER: 3
1. (a) What sort of person did Shakespeare mean any one of the following to be: Falstaff, Richard II, Bassanio, Polonius, Banquo, Edmund, Coriolanus? Is the man you choose good or bad, wise or foolish, likable or unlikable?
(b) If in an amateur performance of one of the following plays—Julius Caesar, As You Like It, Twelfth Night, The Tempest—you were given your choice of a character, whom would you choose and why?
(c) What supernatural elements does Shakespeare introduce into any one of the following plays: A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Julius Caesar, Hamlet, Macbeth, The Tempest? Show to what extent the supernatural is apparent to the human persons in the play.
2. (a) Choose two of the Canterbury Pilgrims and write in prose an account of them based on Chaucer's portraits.
(b) Illustrate from any one of The Canterbury Tales or from The Prologue Chaucer's sly humour.
3. What was the occasion of the writing of Lycidas by Milton? Show how the poet clothes the real incident in pastoral imagery.
4. (a) Write a character-sketch and history of Bridget Elia as you have come to know her in The Essays of Elia.
(b) Give an account of the oddities of behaviour and opinion of Sir Roger de Coverley.
5. Choose any one of Sir Walter Scott’s novels and describe any scene or incident in it that has particularly appealed to you.
6. Explain as intelligibly as possible the story or the situation in any one of the following poems: Alexander’s Feast, The Rape of the Lock, The Bard, The Cotter’s Saturday Night, Resolution and Independence, An Ode to the West Wind, The Eve of St. Agnes, Horatius, The Forsaken Merman, The Revenge.
7. Do you know any book (novel or not novel) which describes a district with which you are familiar? Is it successful in catching the character and spirit of the place?
8. Say frankly whether you like Wordsworth’s Poetry or not, and give your reasons.
9. Choose any one of the following: Lemuel Gulliver, Sam Weller, Elizabeth Bennet, Jos Sedley, Maggie Tulliver, Count Fosco, John Loveday, Dr. Jekyll, Salvation Yeo, Dr. Watson—and describe the chosen one’s appearance, character, and role in the book in which he or she figures.
10. Have you ever read a second (third, fourth, etc.) book or poem by an author because you had greatly enjoyed the first of his that you read? What were the books or poems? What qualities in them attracted you?
