HIGHER GRADE
1913
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition on any one of the following subjects: (a) Describe, as you would to an English friend of your own age, your school life and experiences during the last five or six years. (b) Describe some famous ruin—palace, castle, cathedral, &c.—that you have seen, with reflections on the lives of its former occupants. (c) Discuss the character, either of Mary Queen of Scots, or of Oliver Cromwell, or of Napoleon Buonaparte. (d) Flowers—the pleasure they afford at the different seasons of the year; with remarks on their treatment in Poetry.
2. Rewrite this speech in modern prose, so as to bring out the argument clearly: "Peace, Brother; be not over-exquisite To cast the fashion of uncertain evils; For grant they be so, while they rest unknown, What need a man forestall his date of grief, And run to meet what he would most avoid? Or if they be but false alarms of fear, How bitter is such self-delusion! I do not think my sister so to seek, Or so unprincipled in virtue’s book, And the sweet peace that goodness bosoms ever, As that the single want of light and noise (Not being in danger, as I trust she is not) Could stir the constant mood of her calm thoughts, And put them into mis-becoming plight. Virtue could see to do what virtue would By her own radiant light, though sun and moon Were in the flat sea sunk..."
3. (a) Write a note on each of the words italicised in the above passage; bring out its exact meaning as there used, and note any change of meaning that it may have undergone since Milton. (b) Define accurately, and illustrate by example or reference, the terms Gerund, Hyperbole, Caesura, Alliteration, the Dramatic Unities. (c) Here is a piece of blank verse printed as prose. Write it out as verse, without changing a word or the order of the words: "There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier than all the valleys of Ionian hills. The swimming vapour slopes athwart the glen, puts forth an arm, and creeps from pine to pine, and loiters, slowly drawn. On either hand the lawns and meadow-ledges midway down hang rich in flowers." (d) Distinguish the exact force of the pairs of words or idioms italicised in the following sentences: 1. "There are two kinds of speeches—the speech a man makes when he has something to say, and the speech he makes when he has to say something." 2. "Do you have breakfast at 8?" as compared with "Has she blue eyes?" 3. "He told me he went home. So he did," as compared with "I told him to go home; so he went."
4. Discuss and illustrate any one of the following criticisms: (a) "The principal thought of Gray’s Elegy, which the poet illustrates in a variety of ways, is the essential equality of men." (b) "In the Ode on the Intimations of Immortality, Wordsworth seeks to explain the feeling of mystery with which nature affected him in youth, and to console himself for its disappearance in later life." (c) "The author’s design in L’Allegro and II Penseroso is not merely to show how objects derive their colour from the mind, but rather how every disposition of mind takes hold on those objects by which it may be gratified."
5. Describe and compare any one pair from among the following pairs of characters: Chaucer’s Clerk of Oxenford and Scott’s Dominie Sampson; Shakespeare’s Macbeth and Milton’s Satan; the Jewish characters in The Merchant of Venice and those in Ivanhoe; Falstaff and Mr. Micawber; David Copperfield and Arthur Pendennis.
6. Tell what you know of the rise of the Essay in the eighteenth century, and of the part played by Steele and Addison. What aim had they in view in their moral, their social, and their critical essays? What kind of prose style did they cultivate?
7. Name five of our chief historians, with the periods in which they lived. Give the title of one work by each, and give a fuller account of any one of these works—its subject, style and spirit.
8. Explain fully the historical or other allusions in the following passages. Name, if you can, the author of each passage, and add a sentence or two about the poem from which it is taken: (a) "A king sat on the rocky brow That looks o’er sea-born Salamis." (b) "’Twas at the royal feast for Persia won By Philip’s warlike son." (c) "When the British warrior Queen, Bleeding from the Roman rods..." (d) "Perhaps the self-same song that found a path Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home, She stood in tears amid the alien corn." (e) "Avenge, oh Lord, thy slaughtered saints whose bones Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold."
9. Compare the two following descriptions of the same scene carefully, in respect of the pictures, the language and the thought. What is there in the verse that is not in the prose? "We mounted the Dover coach at Charing Cross. The city, St. Paul’s, with the river and a multitude of little boats, made a most beautiful sight as we crossed Westminster Bridge. The houses were not overhung by their cloud of smoke, and they were spread out endlessly, yet the sun shone so brightly and with such a fierce light, that there was even something like the purity of one of Nature’s own grand spectacles." (Dorothy Wordsworth) (b) "Earth hath not anything to show more fair; Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty: The City now doth like a garment wear The beauty of the morning; silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields and to the sky; All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne’er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will; Dear God! the very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still." (William Wordsworth)
