LOWER GRADE
(1921)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Place these events in the appropriate century: guardianship of Wallace; death of Charlemagne; battle of Inkerman; reign of Henry V of England; execution of Charles I; capture of William the Lion; death of Napoleon I; murder of Darnley; reign of Harold of England; battle of Plassey; reign of Canute; career of the Black Prince; massacre of St. Bartholomew; union of the Piets and Scots; battle of Culloden; Franco-Prussian War.
2. (a) Who was King of Scots at the Norman Conquest? (b) Which English king held David II of Scotland prisoner? (c) What marriage is called the "Union of the Thistle and the Rose"? (d) Which English king received Bombay as his wife’s dowry? (e) Which French king aided American colonists against Britain? (f) Who was U.S. President during the Civil War?
3. Describe the role in Scottish history of three: Queen Margaret (wife of Malcolm Canmore); Alexander III; first Regent Albany; James IV; Marquis of Montrose.
4. Give an account of three sieges of Edinburgh Castle.
5. Explain events leading to (a) Robert Bruce’s coronation, (b) battle of Sauchieburn, (c) battle of Langside.
6. Describe two: career of John Knox; administration of Lauderdale; Darien Scheme; Jacobite Rebellion of 1715.
7. What historical events/figures are depicted by Scott in The Lord of the Isles, The Abbot, Old Mortality, or Waverley? Summarize one.
8. What role did these Scots play under George III: Lord Bute; Admiral Duncan; Sir John Moore; Henry Dundas?
9. Describe two: King David; Themistocles; Agricola; Saladin; Emperor Charles V; Cardinal Richelieu; Lord Clarendon; Empress Maria Theresa; Louis Philippe; Garibaldi.
10. What caused (a) Edward III’s invasion of France and (b) England’s expulsion from France under Henry VI?
11. What events connect to these places: Nectansmere, Carham, Sluys, Cadiz, New Plymouth, Tangier?
12. How does Bosworth Field mark the end of English baronial power? Support with Henry VII and VIII’s reigns.
13. What misdeeds/mistakes of James II caused the 1688-89 Revolution?
14. Write notes on three: Gunpowder Plot; Duke of Buckingham; New Model Army; battle of Blenheim; South Sea Bubble; capture of Quebec.
15. Trace Australasian Colonies’ growth.
16. What alliances did Britain make with Russia and Austria during the French Wars (1793-1815)? Which was more faithful?
17. Who was the greatest figure in Queen Victoria’s reign? Justify.
