HIGHER GRADE
(1920)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. The accompanying map shows parts of Loch Awe and Loch Etive, with a section of the Callander and Oban railway, and the mountain mass of Ben Cruachan: (a) Point out the peculiar features of the Pass of Brander, and suggest an explanation of its peculiarities. (b) Describe a walk from Taynuilt railway station by the shore of Loch Etive, Glen Noe and Allt Mhoille to Loch Awe station, pointing out the chief observations of geographical interest which could be made during the walk. (c) Insert on the map a dotted line showing one feasible route from Loch Awe station up the eastern peak of Ben Cruachan, marked X on the map. Write a short description of the climb. (d) State the precise situation of the village of Taynuilt, and point out any advantages which this site offers, as compared, for example, with the mouth of Glen Noe. (e) At the head of Loch Awe the main road takes a wide bend to the north, and two small streams here are represented by perfectly straight lines. What conclusions as to the nature of the ground here can you draw from these facts? Why does not the railway follow the road?
2. What are the chief causes which determine the climate of a small area? A region in about lat. 35° N., situated on the west side of a large continent, is traversed by a lofty mountain range trending from S.W. to N.E. What climatic conditions would you expect to find in the coastal and transmontane belts? Give reasons.
3. The Highlands of Scotland are defined by geologists as the area cut off by the Highland Boundary Fault. Give some account of this tract of country, discussing the question whether or not it is geographically uniform.
4. Name and describe two types of forest, stating where you would expect to find each type, and the chief products of commercial value obtained from it. Add a note on the peoples of the forested areas named and their occupations.
5. What are the chief factors which make it possible for a country to export large amounts of wheat? Illustrate by an account of two wheat-exporting areas.
6. Write a short account either of a region now undergoing glaciation or of one containing active volcanoes, showing how the phenomena described influence the life of man.
7. State the precise situation of four of the following towns, and point out the advantages of position which each possesses: Singapore, Montreal, Chicago, Colombo, Cairo, Buenos Ayres.
8. Comment on the following statements, explaining why the great geographical discoveries were so important to Britain: “Before the great geographical discoveries of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, Britain was at the end of the world.” “For the generations that followed Columbus, Britain gradually became the central, rather than the terminal, land of the world.”
9. Draw a sketch-map of France. Mark the chief mountain ranges and uplands, the larger rivers, four ports and four inland towns. Show, with careful reference to the relief, the course of one important international railway route.
10. A teacher of Geography in a foreign school proposes to take his class for a fortnight’s tour in Scotland, landing at Leith. Draw up a scheme to show how the time might be most profitably spent, about equal attention being given to economic, historical, and physical Geography.
11. Describe the physical features of South Africa, or of India south of the Ganges Valley, or of Australia, with special reference to the effects of the relief on the climate and the distribution of the population.