SECOND GRADE
1890
ENGLISH
PAPER: 3
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following: "Hark! ’tis the twanging horn! O’er yonder bridge, That with its wearisome but needful length Bestrides the wintry flood, in which the moon Sees her unwrinkled face reflected bright, He comes, the herald of a noisy world, With spattered boots, strapped waist and frozen locks, News from all nations lumbering at his back. True to his charge, the close-packed load behind, Yet careless what he brings, his one concern Is to conduct it to the destined inn, And, having dropped the expected bag, pass on."
3. Analyse the first five lines of the above quotation.
4. Point out any faults in the following sentences, and correct them: (a) Passing up the stairs, a rapid consultation was held. (b) He met the very person whom he thought was least likely to be present. (c) Philosophy never has and never can be a popular subject. (d) If we examine this sentence, we will find it faulty. (e) Nothing that remains in any part of the world is so grand as the pyramids.
5. Parse the italicised words in the following sentences: (a) My father! Methinks I see my father. (b) Nobody knows it but you. (c) It is easy to see that. (d) Seeing is believing. (e) Cut me a slice. (f) We will make him a corporal, if you please. (g) He is a friend of mine.
6. Explain, with an example of each, the meaning of the terms: intransitive verb, auxiliary verb, subjunctive mood, compound noun, compound sentence, noun of multitude, indefinite pronoun.
7. Give some instances of Romance suffixes added to Teutonic roots, and of Teutonic suffixes added to Romance roots. Explain the force of each suffix.
8. Give the derivations of the following words: Madam, Twenty, Provost, Biscuit, Ancestor, Bishopric, Pilgrim, Hotel, Panorama, Strange, Planet.
9. Name, with dates, the authors of the following works: The Fairy Queen, Macbeth, The Pilgrim’s Progress, The Cotter’s Saturday Night, The Ancient Mariner. Give an account of any one of these works.
10. Name, with a brief account of one of the works of each, either (a) two poets of the fourteenth century; (b) two dramatists or two theologians of the sixteenth century; (c) two poets or two historians of the seventeenth century; (d) two satirists or two novelists of the eighteenth century; (e) two poets or two men of science of the nineteenth century.
11. What do you know of the conversion of the English to Christianity?
12. Write a sketch of the relations between the kings and the barons during the reigns either of the Norman or of the Plantagenet kings.
13. Explain the grounds of the quarrel between Henry II (2) and Becket.
14. Write a sketch of the reign either of James I (1) of Scotland or of James IV (4).
15. How did the Reformation in Scotland differ from the Reformation in England?
16. What were the causes of the hostility of England and Spain in the reign of Elizabeth? What do you know of Drake and Raleigh?
17. What were the chief causes of dispute which brought on the Great Rebellion?
18. What do you know of the Cabal, the Exclusion Bill, the Trial of the Seven Bishops, the battle of Killiecrankie?
19. Write a sketch either of Clive’s career in India, or of the War of American Independence.
20. What do you know of the Irish Rebellion of (1798), the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and the Holy Alliance?
21. Draw a straight line from Perth to Sheffield, or from Newcastle to Bristol, and show near what important towns, and across what rivers and mountain-ranges, the line would pass.
22. In what parts of Great Britain are lead, salt, and slate respectively found in the greatest abundance?
23. From what countries, and to what ports, do we chiefly import tea, sugar, wheat, and timber?
24. Name the chief possessions of Great Britain in North America, with the dates and main circumstances of their acquisition.
25. Draw an outline map of Ireland, or of England south of the Mersey, indicating the districts most thickly, and those most thinly, populated.
