LOWER GRADE
(1915)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. What sovereigns were reigning (a) in Scotland and (b) in England when each of the following events took place: the battle of Pinkie; the battle of Bosworth Field; the battle of Hastings; the Gowrie Conspiracy; the battle of Otterburn; the foundation of the University of St. Andrews; the battle of Crecy; the rebellion of Perkin Warbeck?
2. Explain briefly the connexion either (a) between religious persecution and the foundation of the New England colonies; or (b) between the Trial of the Seven Bishops and the Revolution of 1688; or (c) between the conquest of Canada and the American War of Independence; or (d) between the Crimean War and the Liberation of Italy.
3. What part was played in early Scottish history by (a) St. Columba, (b) Kenneth MacAlpine, and (c) Constantine III.?
4. What notable events do you associate with any six of the following places: Carham, Alnwick, Largs, Methven, Harlaw, the Castle of St. Andrews, Drumclog, the Isthmus of Darien, Prestonpans?
5. Each of the first five Scottish kings of the name of James died in tragic circumstances. Tell briefly the fate of each, adding dates where you can.
6. Show the influence upon Queen Mary’s fortunes of (a) her residence in France, and (b) her marriage to Darnley.
7. Explain why the Scots fought against Charles I. at Marston Moor and for Charles II. at Dunbar and Worcester.
8. What events led to the Union of the Parliaments of England and Scotland in 1707? Why was it unpopular in Scotland?
9. Select any two of the following characters, and tell (a) in which of his novels or poems Sir Walter Scott has described each of the two characters you have selected, and (b) what impression he has given you of each of the two: James IV.; James VI.; Claverhouse; Prince Charles Edward Stuart.
10. Give some account of any two of the following: Ahab, Nebuchadnezzar, Solon, Philip of Macedon, Quintus Fabius Cunctator, Mark Antony, Charlemagne, Wycliffe, Joan of Arc, Luther, Sir Philip Sidney, Walpole, Lord Shaftesbury, Mazzini.
11. On what occasions were any four of the following expressions used, or to what persons or events do they refer? (a) A sair sanct for the Crown. (b) It cam wi’ a lass and it will gang wi’ a lass. (c) When Adam delved and Eve span, Who was then the gentleman? (d) If I had served my God as I have served my king, he would not have deserted me in my old age. (e) Take away that bauble! (f) I believe that I can save this country and that nobody else can. (g) It is magnificent, but it is not war. (h) I bring you peace with honour.
12. What parts of the British Isles were conquered (a) by the Romans, and (b) by the Danes? What traces of each of these conquests are left?
13. Why is the name of Edward I. of England important in the history of (a) Scotland, and (b) Wales?
14. What parts were played in the Wars of the Roses by (a) Queen Margaret, (b) Warwick the King Maker, and (c) Henry VII.?
15. Why is Queen Elizabeth’s reign regarded as one of the greatest reigns in English history?
16. How did it come about that (a) English troops fought in the Netherlands under Marlborough, and (b) British troops fought in Spain under Wellington?
17. Describe briefly the part played by the British Navy in the Napoleonic Wars.
18. Give some account of the main changes that took place in the political geography of the Balkan Peninsula from 1820 to 1913.
