LOWER GRADE
1897
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage read for dictation.
2. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects: (а) Any one of the Scottish characters in Scott’s novels; (б) A letter, as to a friend, giving a short account of a journey, real or imaginary, by land or sea.
3. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning: Great princes have great playthings. Some have play’d At hewing mountains into men, and some At building human wonders mountain high. Some have amused the dull sad years of life (Life spent in indolence, and therefore sad) With schemes of monumental fame, and sought By pyramids and mausolean pomp, Short-lived themselves to immortalise their bones. Some seek diversion in the tented field, And make the sorrows of mankind their sport. But war’s a game which, were their subjects wise, Kings would not play at. Nations would do well To extort their truncheons from the puny hands Of heroes, whose infirm and baby minds Are gratified with mischief, and who spoil, Because men suffer it, their toy, the World.
4. Parse the words italicised in the above passage. Give the derivation of ten words of classical origin in the above passage.
5. Make a general analysis of the last sentence of the passage quoted in Question 3. Explain, and give an example of (a) apposition, (b) co-ordinate sentence, (c) compound noun, (d) strong verb, (e) indirect object.
6. Give (a) the plurals of son-in-law, foot-soldier, man-servant, grouse, calf, hoof, series, covey. (b) The feminines corresponding to waiter, executor, earl, czar, bachelor, nephew, buck, wizard. (c) The past tenses and past participles of wear, bite, burst, bleed, lie (in both senses), crow, grow.
7. Point out, and correct, any faults in the following sentences: (а) No sooner did he begin speaking, when he was interrupted. (б) Knox was equally ardent in the matter of reform as Luther. (c) All eyes watched breathlessly as he swam towards the shore. (d) Incredulous as it may appear, it is nevertheless true. (e) He proved himself one of the most sagacious men that was in power during that period.
8. Name one work of each of the following poets, and describe the contents and metre of any three of the poems you mention: Goldsmith, Cowper, Burns, Campbell, Scott, Southey, Byron, Tennyson.
9. Give a short description of a scene or incident from history, or drama, or fiction, which particularly impressed you.
