HIGHER GRADE
(1892)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay of two or three pages on one of the following subjects.
2. State, and exemplify, the correct usage of *shall* and *will*. Are the following usages good English, and, if so, why?
3. Illustrate the statements that, in the English Alphabet, one letter represents different sounds, and one sound is represented by different letters.
4. State the origin of any three of the following words, and the derivation of any five.
5. What facts in the history of the English language can you illustrate from the existence of the doublets *ward* and *guard*, *evil* and *ill*, *poor* and *pauper*, *church* and *kirk*?
6. When, and by whom, were the following works written? Give a short account of any two of these works.
7. What was the general character of English Literature at the time when *The Pilgrim’s Progress* was written? Why is it called an allegory? Can you compare it with the *Fairy Queen*?
8. Describe in full one of Chaucer’s Canterbury Pilgrims, or one of Shakespeare’s heroines, or one of Scott’s humorous characters.
9. Point out, and correct, any faults in the following sentences.
10. Paraphrase the following passage so as to exhibit the full meaning, and analyse the four lines beginning “For what are men.”
11. Give an account of the reign of Edward the Confessor, with special reference to the position and policy of Earl Godwin and his sons.
12. Name any instances, between 1066 and 1400, in which the English crown did not pass from father to eldest son, and explain the reasons in each case.
13. Give an account of the parentage, relationships, and education of David I. Describe his policy, and its results to Scotland.
14. Write a short life of Simon de Montfort.
15. What were the causes that led to the outbreak of the Hundred Years’ War between England and France? Account for its long duration, and estimate its effect upon each of the two countries. In what position did they stand at the close of the reign of Edward III.?
16. Sketch the history of the Reformation in Scotland down to the death of Mary of Guise, and contrast its origin and final settlement with the corresponding movement in England.
17. What were the most important measures of the Long Parliament down to the beginning of the Civil War? How did the Long Parliament come to an end?
18. Write short notes on the Five Mile Act, Test Act, Habeas Corpus Act, Toleration Act, Mutiny Act, Claim of Right and Act of Settlement, explaining the circumstances under which they were severally passed.
19. Sketch the political life of Sir Robert Walpole, describing his character and policy as shown both in opposition and during his ministry.
20. Describe the political and social condition of Great Britain in the period immediately after Waterloo. What do you know of Brougham, Huskisson, Canning, Grey, O’Connell?
21. From what ports in Great Britain would you start for Hamburg, Riga, Boulogne, Marseilles, Bergen, Madeira, Malta, Valparaiso, New York, Melbourne, Montreal, Trinidad? About how long would the voyage by steamer take in each case?
22. Draw a map of Ireland, and show the position of the chief mountain ranges, rivers, and lakes. Name the various routes to England and Scotland, and the chief articles exported.
23. Draw a map of the Basin of the Forth or the Trent, showing the towns and indicating their historical or commercial importance.
24. Describe the main physical divisions of India, and the principal products of each; add short notes on the Monsoons, the North-West Frontier, and Caste.
25. What are the physical and geographical conditions that determine the temperature, rainfall, general climate, and productiveness of any place? Give examples.
