HIGHER GRADE
1955
HISTORY
PAPER: 2
1. Describe briefly the Persians’ war against Greece in 480-479 B.C. and account for the failure of the Persians.
2. Compare the political systems of Athens and Sparta at the outbreak of the Peloponnesian War. Which seems to you the better?
3. Describe the constitution of the Roman Republic at the beginning of the first century B.C.
4. “There has never been a more valuable government than that of Augustus Caesar.” On what grounds does he deserve high praise as a ruler?
5. Compare the importance of the Emperors Diocletian and Constantine in the history of the Roman Empire.
6. Write notes on two of the following: The Ionian Revolt; Pericles; Greek Drama; Dionysius of Syracuse; the Second Punic War; Caius Gracchus.
7. Describe briefly the barbarian invasions of the fifth century.
8. “The twelfth-century renaissance.” Can this term be justified?
9. Discuss the view that Philip IV of France completed the work begun by Philip II (Augustus).
10. “The policy of Emperor Frederick II involved the end of German unity.” Discuss this statement.
11. Explain the causes of the Conciliar movement in the Church of the fifteenth century and show why it was not more successful.
12. Write notes on two of the following: The Partition of Verdun; Normans in Italy and Sicily; Otto the Great; the Union of Kalmar; Joan of Arc; the Visconti of Milan.
13. Estimate the debt of the Continental Reformation to the Renaissance.
14. Trace and account for the successful rising of the Dutch Netherlands.
15. Explain the steps by which Sweden became a great power in the seventeenth century.
16. How far was the foreign policy of Louis XIV in the best interests of France?
17. Do you consider that Frederick the Great bears the chief share of responsibility for the European Wars of 1740-48 and 1756-63?
18. Write notes on two of the following: Charles VIII’s invasion of Italy; The foundation of the Jesuit Order; Frederick, Elector Palatine; John Sobieski; Cardinal Alberoni; The War of the Polish Succession.
19. To what extent did Austrian and Russian interests agree or differ between the end of the Seven Years’ War and the third Partition of Poland?
20. “If the conquests of Napoleon were ephemeral, his civilian work in France was built upon granite.” Discuss this opinion.
21. Explain the merits and defects of the Congress