HIGHER GRADE
(1915)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1a. What is the average gradient of such a road?
1b. Under what type of sea-inlets would Loch Brittle be classified? Under what type of sea-inlets would Loch Coruisk be classified? Give reasons.
1c. Knowing that this map represents part of Skye, what inferences would you draw as to the probable vegetation and fauna; the occupations of the inhabitants, density of the population, and summer recreations of the boys?
1d. Complete these contour lines and insert in Fig. 2 contour lines from 50 feet to 500 feet with a contour interval of 50 feet.
2. Explain the phenomenon of twilight. Why is twilight of longer duration in high latitudes than in low? Why has Scotland no real night at midsummer?
3. Write notes on any two of the following: cycle of erosion, raised-beach, hanging valley, rift valley.
4. Select any one of the great natural regions (e.g., tundra, coniferous forest, savannah, tropical forest, &c.), and describe the animal life of the region from the point of view of adaptation to environment.
5. Give an account of the climate of any district with which you are personally familiar. Refer to prevailing winds, mean temperatures in summer and winter, annual rainfall, and the relations between climatic factors and the physical features of the district.
6. Comment on this statement in such a way as to bring out the influence of the geographical factors that were operative.
7. Write a short essay on the iron and steel industry of the United Kingdom. State the districts where the industry is localised, the advantages possessed by these districts, the migrations of the industry and their causes, the reasons why places not on coalfields (e.g., Birmingham) are able to flourish, and any other relevant matter.
8. Select one of the following continents: North America, Africa, South America. Describe the vegetation belts that would be encountered in traversing the continent from north to south. Illustrate by a sketch map.
9. Write a short essay on one of the following subjects: (a) The effects upon geographical discovery of the rise of the Mohammedan power; (b) Arctic exploration in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries; (c) Prince Henry the Navigator; (d) The quest for the sources of the Nile; (e) The limits of the ancient world as known to a cultured Roman of the first century of our era.
