HIGHER GRADE
(1960)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. After studying the part of the Ordnance Survey map which is provided: (a) Describe the view northwards from Brandwood Moor and how it differs from the view to the north-west from Great Hamildon. (b) To what extent do valleys control the routes from Burnley via Accrington to Haslingden and from Burnley southwards; the sites and shapes of Padiham, Burnley and the urban grouping of Rawtenstall-Bacup? (c) What are the main uses made of the moorland?
2. On the accompanying map of the Arctic and adjacent lands: (a) Name the towns lettered A, B, and C, and the Rivers Volga, Ob, and Mackenzie, and mark with a cross the magnetic north pole. (b) Name the two isotherms marked on the map. (c) Estimate in degrees the distance of places X and Y from the North Pole. Beside each, print your estimates of their January and July temperatures. (d) Mark, with arrows to show direction, the winds blowing over British Columbia in July, over Norway in October, and over Manchuria in December. (e) Name the direction of flight along the routes of two aircraft marked with red arrows. (f) Along the course of the Trans-Siberian railway mark and name two industrial areas and the towns of Irkutsk and Novosibirsk.
3. Draw a sketch-map of an area approximately 100 square miles in size with your school centrally placed and show the following items: relief; drainage; latitude and longitude; height of school above mean sea level; direction of true north; approximate direction of magnetic north; either the extent of arable land or the main routes of the area. Give the scale and include a key.
4. What is the difference between a mountain range, a mountain system, and a high plateau? Give one example of each. Select one of your examples and discuss its significance in relation to routeways.
5. Why is it that eastern and western coasts of continents in similar latitudes experience very different climates?
6. Discuss the opportunities for development offered by equatorial forests and the difficulties to be faced in their development.
7. Compare and contrast the world importance of the Panama and Suez canals.
8. “The nomadic way of life, whether hunting or stock rearing, is disappearing.” Discuss with examples from Asia or Africa or North America.
9. Why is the southern hemisphere, in contrast with the northern hemisphere, so sparsely peopled except for a few isolated areas? Or Discuss with reference to any one of Canada, U.S.S.R., Brazil, or Indonesia the problems to be faced in organizing it into a political unit.
