HIGHER GRADE
(1916)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. The map represents part of the North Downs. In the space provided below the map, draw a section from A to B. What light does the section throw on the structure of the North Downs? Show how the directions of the railways and roads round Guildford have been influenced by geographical conditions. Discuss and account for the unequal distribution of the population over the area shown in the map.
2. Illustrate the work of a river, by describing the course of some particular river, from source to sea.
3. Write notes on any two of the following: Mercator’s Projection; scarped lands; anticyclone; the relation between latitude and noon-altitude of sun at the equinoxes.
4. Contrast the rainfall and the mean temperature, in January and in July, of places on the Mediterranean coast and in the interior of Russia. How do you account for the contrast?
5. Describe briefly the methods by which an Ordnance Survey Map, such as accompanies this paper, is constructed.
6. Name four of the most important naval bases in the United Kingdom. Explain the advantages that each possesses.
7. Give an account of the Atlas Mountain region. Describe the physical structure, climate, plants, and animals, in order to show that this region is more akin to Europe than to Africa.
8. Draw a sketch-map of any one of the following countries: Russia in Europe, China, Brazil, New Zealand. Indicate high ground by shading, and insert the chief rivers and not more than six important towns. Draw and number a line of latitude, a line of longitude, and an approximate scale of miles.
9. Comment on any two of the following statements: From a commanding summit in their interior the Highlands of Scotland are seen to differ from any mountain chain such as the Alps, not merely in their inferior elevation, but essentially in their configuration and structure. The merchants of the Middle Ages tried to utilise a natural water-way wherever possible. The conservatism of the Chinese is due in great measure to the profound isolation of their country in former times. Australia has a remarkable structural resemblance to South America; but the arrangement of the parts is reversed. Norway affords an excellent illustration of the influence of geographical conditions on the development of exploration.