LOWER GRADE
(1903)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write an essay, of about two pages, on one of the following subjects: Photography. A Shipwreck.
3. Paraphrase the following poem: The Last Voyage of La Perouse.
4. Parse the words italicised in the foregoing passage.
5. Give some account, with examples, of the figures of speech which are founded on resemblance.
6. Write ten short sentences using these words correctly: awfully, plastic, capacious, transpire, constant, partake, calculate, intermittent, unique, amidst.
7. Point out the faults in these sentences and rewrite them: (a) There were very few passengers, who escaped without serious injury. (b) Wanted, a gentleman to travel in sacks throughout the North of England. (c) A King is the pilot of the State and should edify his subjects by his example. (d) Montmorency saw the black flag hoisted with a smile of contempt. (e) The heroine is as wild, fascinating and romantic as ever trod the stage.
8. Give an account of these works and authors: Faerie Queene, Essay on Man, Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border, The Seasons, The Vicar of Wakefield.
9. Write short papers on two subjects: The origin of trial by jury; the Heptarchy; the Cabinet; the National Debt; the Hundred Years’ War; the hereditary descent of the English crown; the Feudal system; the dissolution of the monasteries; Cromwell’s foreign policy; British power in the East.
10. Give an account of four: Hengist and Horsa; The Venerable Bede; Offa’s Dyke; The Peace of Wedmore; William of Normandy’s claim; The Battle of the Standard; Henry II.’s Sons’ Revolt; Loss of Normandy; Provisions of Oxford; Balliol and Bruce; The Black Death; John Wiclif; Battle of Otterburn; Statute de heretico comburendo; Battle of Tewkesbury; Star Chamber; Divorce of Katharine of Aragon; Francis Drake; Millenary Petition; Short Parliament; Solemn League and Covenant; Montrose’s Campaigns; Clarendon’s Ministry; Whigs and Tories; Capture of Gibraltar; Stamp Act; Middlesex Election; Union of Britain and Ireland; Battle of the Nile; Chartists; Repeal of Corn Laws; Treaty of Berlin.
11. Illustrate from English and Scottish History: “Let us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of Kings...”
12. Describe the principal harbours of the South and East Coasts of Great Britain.
13. Show how rivers affect a country’s history and civilisation.
14. Locate ten places and state their significance: Lake Chad, Aleppo, Medina, Socotra, Hayti, Hyderabad, Bizerta, Upsala, Para, Avignon, Gettysburg, Ravenna, Teheran, Graaf Reinet, Woodstock, Sokoto, Ballarat, Yorktown, Bangkok, Irkutsk, Prestonpans.
