Higher Grade
1948
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Describe life in Britain during the Roman occupation.
2. What were the problems that faced Henry II on his accession? What measures did he take for dealing with them?
3. Explain the causes of the Scottish War of Independence, and account for the final success of the Scots.
4. Explain the circumstances that led to the break-up of the manorial system.
5. Write notes on two of the following: St. Augustine of Canterbury; Cnut; David I of Scotland; Stephen Langton; the Provisions of Oxford; the Lollards.
6. On what grounds can modern English history be said to begin with the reign of Henry VII?
7. In what respects did the Reformation in Scotland differ in character from the Reformation in England?
8. Describe English commercial development in the reign of Elizabeth.
9. Compare the services rendered to Rome by Pompey and by Julius Caesar.
10. Describe the Roman system of provincial administration in the first century A.D.
11. Explain the importance of the duchy of Burgundy in the latter half of the fifteenth century.
12. “The success of the Reformation spelt the ruin of the Holy Roman Empire.” How far do you agree with this statement?
13. Trace the rise of Sweden to the rank of a great power and account for its decline.
14. “The reputation of Louis XIV would have been greater if he had died before 1685.” How far do you agree?
15. Do you consider that the ambition of Frederick II of Prussia was the sole cause of the War of the Austrian Succession?
16. Explain the political and social grievances which led to the French Revolution.
17. Describe the chief stages in the relations between Turkey and the European powers between 1815 and 1839.
18. “Blood and iron.” Do you consider this phrase a satisfactory description of the methods of Bismarck?
19. Explain the international rivalries which led to the War of 1914-1918.
20. Write notes on two of the following: the Emperor Joseph II; the Treaty of Tilsit; the Kingdom of the Netherlands (1815-1830); Mazzini; Louis Blanc; the Zollverein.
