LOWER GRADE
1902
ENGLISH
PAPER 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write an essay on one of the following subjects: The advantages of Travel; Epitaphs.
3. Paraphrase the following lines so as to bring out their full meaning.
4. Show, by an examination of any three lines of the above passage, how it differs from prose.
5. Parse the five words italicised in question 3. Make a general analysis of the following.
6. Write ten short sentences, each containing one of the following words correctly used so as to bring out its full meaning: affect, sumptuous, universal, athwart, collusion, wherewith, mitigate, continuous, mutual, howsoever.
7. Point out the faults in the following sentences. Say why you consider them faults, and re-write each sentence in an improved form.
8. Name one famous literary work by each of the following writers, indicating the kind to which it belongs and the approximate date of its appearance: Keats, Pope, Hooker, Dryden, Browning, Jeremy Taylor, Cowper. Give a fuller description of any one of the above works.
9. Write a short account of any one of the following reigns or ministries with special regard to domestic changes and wars: Alfred the Great, Henry III., Edward III., Henry VIII., James I., Charles II., Walpole, George III., Palmerston.
10. Give some account of any four of the following to show their significance in British history: Caesar's Invasion of Britain, Celtic Christianity, Danegeld, Domesday Book, The Maid of Norway, The White Ship, The Crusades, Edward I.'s Invasion of Wales, The First English Parliament, The Poll-tax, Battle of Shrewsbury, Siege of Orleans, Perkin Warbeck, Act of Supremacy, Six Articles, The Smithfield Fires, Battle of Zutphen, Insurrection of Essex, Hampton Court Conference, The Policy of "Thorough," Root and Branch Bill, Instrument of Government, The Trial of the Seven Bishops, Battle of the Boyne, National Debt, The Rising of (1715), South Sea Bubble, Seven Years' War, Trial of Warren Hastings, Peninsular War, Siege of Lucknow, First Home Rule Bill.
11. Describe in detail any two routes from London to Japan, mentioning the principal places passed on the way.
12. Draw a map of Africa showing the possessions of the principal European Powers.
13. Describe from source to mouth the course of any four of the navigable rivers of Great Britain.
14. Say where ten of the following places are situated and mention anything for which each is remarkable: Cintra, Dongola, Klondyke, Nice, Formosa, Harrismith, Ferrara, Leyden, New Orleans, Missolonghi, Gothenburg, Ajaccio, Staffa, Poitiers, Ratisbon, Edgehill.
