HIGHER GRADE
(1909)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a Composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following subjects: Describe an imaginary visit to, and conversation with, some famous author, or some character in a book, with whose personal appearance, habits and views you are fairly well acquainted. Aerial Navigation—what has been achieved, and what may be looked for. Reproduce in narrative form the most striking scene in any play that you have read. Reproduce in dialogue form the most striking chapter in any novel that you have read.
2. The following extract is from Burke’s Letter to a Noble Lord. State exactly, in one sentence, and without metaphor, the meaning of the passage. Explain the precise metaphor employed by Burke, and show how it is carried out in detail.
3. Select ten of the following words, and make ten sentences, using, in each, one of the words in its correct modern sense; show how the word has changed from its original meaning, and add the derivation where you can: Caitiff, considerable, cunning, entail, ghostly, humour, knave, jovial, minister, nice, person, predicament, presently, recreant, shamefaced, temper, villain.
4. Rewrite the following passage in modern English, modernizing the spelling, the vocabulary and the constructions where necessary. Add short notes on the words in italics.
5. How did the speech of the Court and London come to be accepted as Standard English?
6. Describe the framework in which Chaucer has set his Canterbury Tales. Compare it with the setting of any other collection of stories known to you. What are the advantages of Chaucer’s plan?
7. How has Spenser personified and characterized any three of the following qualities in The Faerie Queene: Hypocrisy, Superstition, Christian Truth, Worldly Pride, Avarice, Chivalry, Despair, Hope?
8. Contrast these two passages in respect of poetic truth, imagery and diction. To what period would you assign each, and why? Quote, or refer to, any other famous verses on Sleep in English poetry.
9. Discuss the statement that "Every play of Shakespeare has its special climate, its definite season, its local peculiarities" with reference to any play or plays that you have read.
10. Distinguish three periods in Milton’s literary life. With what "high purpose" did he undertake the composition of Paradise Lost? What is meant by calling it a "classical Epic," and how does it differ in construction from such narrative poems as The Faerie Queene or Marmion? Quote a few characteristic lines to show metre and style.
11. Discuss the treatment in imaginative literature of any famous historical character. If the treatment seems strikingly inaccurate or unfair, try to account for this.
12. Name your favourite essayist, indicate his range and choice of subjects, and consider what light they throw upon his times, and upon his own tastes and character.
