HIGHER GRADE
1913
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. (a) Explain carefully the meaning, or meanings, of the following political terms: Government, executive, legislature, republic, cabinet, constitutional government, federation, suzerainty. (b) How would you describe the governments of any six of the following States: ancient Sparta, ancient Athens, Rome under Augustus, mediaeval Venice, mediaeval Florence, the United Provinces in the seventeenth century, the United States, the modern German Empire, the United Kingdom?
2. Give a short account of the chief invasions of Britain before (1066), pointing out the importance of each.
3. Note and explain the successive changes in the policy pursued by Edward I. towards Scotland.
4. "The Franco-Scottish alliance was more beneficial to France than to Scotland." Discuss this statement.
5. What is meant by the "Renaissance," and how did it affect England and Scotland?
6. Explain the chief difficulties which confronted Mary Stewart during her actual rule in Scotland.
7. Write short notes on any three of the following: the Feudal System, the Act of Union of (1707), the Industrial Revolution, Grattan’s Parliament, the Disruption of (1843).
8. "Disraeli rose to power as the champion of Tory Democracy at home and of Imperialism abroad." Explain this statement.
9. Sketch, in outline the history of Britain’s rule in South Africa during the nineteenth century.
10. Give a brief account of any two of the following: the repulse of the Persian invasions of Greece, the defeat of Athens at the close of the Peloponnesian war, the conquests of Alexander the Great, the conquest of Greece by the Romans.
11. Compare the influence of sea-power in the history of Athens and of Rome.
12a. Account for the ultimate failure of Hannibal’s campaigns in Italy.
12b. Examine the main causes of the downfall of republican government in Rome.
13. To whom are the following utterances attributed, and to what do they refer? (a) "God granting me life, I will make the key keep the castle and the bracken-bush the cow." (b) "The crown came with a lass, and ’twill go with a lass." (c) "Presbyterianism is no religion for a gentleman." (d) "I rejoice that America has resisted; three millions of people so dead to all the feelings of liberty as voluntarily to submit to be slaves would be fit instruments to have made slaves of the rest." (e) "I called a new world into existence to redress the balance of the old."
14a. "The Norman Conquest was a curse to England."
14b. "The Great Rebellion was the last of the Wars of Religion."
14c. "Revolutions have usually been made by a resolute and united minority."
15. Illustrate and account for the importance in history of any three of the following cities: Jerusalem, Constantinople, Alexandria, Lisbon, Vienna, Antwerp.
16. Account for the powerful impulse to geographical discovery in the later part of the fifteenth century, and explain the direction taken by the great explorers of the period.
17. Give a short account of any three of the following: the Diet of Worms (1520), the Massacre of St. Bartholomew (1572), the Treaty of Westphalia (1648), the Congress of Vienna (1815), the Congress of Berlin (1878), the origin of the present entente between Britain and France.
