LOWER GRADE
(1916)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of the World: Insert in their proper places the following names: River Yukon, Lake Baikal, Tunis, Falkland Is., Caucasus, St. Helena, Orinoco, Fujiyama, Euphrates. Show by dots the positions of the following towns, and print the name of each close to the dot: Genoa, Bulawayo, Mecca, Quito, Riga, Madras, Pietermaritzburg, Cincinnati, Auckland. Draw five meridians (lines of longitude) passing through all places that have the following times, and insert in its proper place the name of one town on or close to each meridian.
2. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: Insert in their proper places the following names, indicating the exact position of towns by a dot: Limerick (town), Oban, Brighton, Mourne Mts., Hartlepool, Iona, Chiltern Hills, Dunfermline, Windermere. Print “wheat,” “fruit,” “potatoes,” “dairy produce” over districts specially noted for these things. Indicate by a line the quickest route by rail and sea between London and Dublin, between Carlisle and Belfast, between Glasgow and Stornoway. Insert the names of these towns and of the ports of embarkation and debarkation.
3. Draw a sketch map of the basin of the River Thames. Insert and name the main tributaries, the chief hill ridges, and the most important towns.
4. Give a short geographical description of the county in which your school is situated. Arrange your answer under these headings: relief, climate, natural vegetation, crops, and industries.
5. Contrast the main occupations of the people in N.E. Ireland with those of the people in S.W. Ireland. Explain as far as you can the geographical influences that have favoured the development of the various occupations.
6. Imagine that you are about to make a journey by rail from Halifax (N.S.) to Vancouver (B.C.). Describe the route, the types of scenery, and the products of the districts you would pass through.
7. The following table gives mean temperatures for two places that are approximately in the same latitude. Discuss and account for the striking contrast in the climate of the two places.
8. Write a short account of the situation, the character, the circumstances which favour the growth, the economic importance of the woodlands of Brazil, or Australia, or New Zealand.
9. Write a short essay on one of the following subjects: The North-West Passage; the Exploration of Australia; Drake’s Voyages; South Polar Exploration.
