Higher Grade
1908
HISTORY
1
1. In the skeleton chronological chart provided place as many as you can of the following in the appropriate compartments: The Long Parliament, the Declaration of Independence, the Scottish Reformation, the last Jacobite Rebellion, the persecution of the Lollards, the Seven Years’ War, Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales, the battle of Sedan, the King’s Quhair, the first Reform Bill, the American Civil War, the battle of Dunbar, the invention of the steam-engine, Clive’s victories in India, the death of Joan of Arc, the battle of Flodden.
2. Explain the circumstances which led to the battle of Harlaw. Describe the traditional incidents of the battle, and estimate its importance.
3. What do you know of the state of the Catholic Church in Scotland just before the Reformation? Describe the part played by Knox.
4. What part did the Scots play in the English Civil War from the signing of the Solemn League and Covenant to the battle of Dunbar?
5. What do you know of the state of the Highlands from (1689) to (1745)? What circumstances helped to make the Jacobite cause popular in Scotland?
6. Describe the struggle of Greece with Persia.
7. By what stages did Rome become mistress of the Mediterranean, and what was the extent of her empire at its greatest?
8. Give some account of any two of the following: Socrates, Pericles, Alexander the Great, Tarquinius Superbus, Coriolanus, Hannibal, Cicero, Cleopatra.
8. Give some account of any two of the following: Attila, Charlemagne, Hildebrand, St. Francis of Assisi, David I. of Scotland, John of Gaunt, Joan of Arc, George Buchanan.
9. What were the main causes of the Crusades, and what their effect on western civilization? Describe any one of the Crusades more particularly.
10. What was the origin of the Hundred Years’ War? Estimate its effect on Scotland, on the power of the Parliament in England, and on France.
11. Describe briefly the cause and course of the struggle between England and Spain in the 16th century, and estimate its effects on both countries.
12. How was the Revolution of (1688) brought about? On what grounds was it justified? Contrast its ultimate effect on Scotland and on Ireland.
13. Enumerate the attempts made in the 18th century to tax the American colonies. What views of Britain’s right to tax the colonies were held by Pitt, Grenville, Burke?
14. Narrate the events which led up to the battle of Waterloo, and describe the chief incidents of the battle.
15. Sketch the development of any of the great self-governing colonies.
16. Name some of the great English writers of history; indicate the periods with which they have dealt, and characterise any one of them more particularly.
