HIGHER GRADE
(1916)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Give two historical examples of each of the following, with dates: Wars of Independence; Wars of Religion; Armed Neutralities; Revolutions; Mutinies; The Discovery of new Countries; The union of two Kingdoms; Federations. Choose one of the following phrases, and tell when it was famous in history and what meaning was attached to it by those who used it: The Divine Right of Kings. No Taxation without Representation. Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.
2. About what period did it become possible to speak of “The Kingdom of England” and “The Kingdom of Scotland”? State briefly the stages by which national unity was attained in each case.
3. In the 12th, 13th and 14th centuries the Crown had two great rivals—the Church and the Baronage. How far is this true of either England or Scotland?
4. Narrate the circumstances and events which led up to the fall of the House of Lancaster.
5. Why are the following famous in the history of the Reformation: Henry VIII.; Archbishop Cranmer; John Knox?
6. Give some account of the relations between England and Scotland in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
7. What attempts were made to increase the power of the Crown by Charles I. and George III.?
8. On what grounds may the reign of Queen Anne be regarded as one of the most important in British history?
9. In what circumstances did British forces fight at Acre (1799), Navarino (1829), and Acre (1840)?
10. The British Empire was extended by war in the 18th century, and by peaceful methods in the 19th. How far is this true?
11. Write a sentence or two giving the main facts about five of the following battles, with their dates, and a paragraph giving a fuller account of the remaining one: Thermopylae, Plataea, Sybota, Helium, Arginusae, Leuctra.
12. How far is it true to say that the constitution of Athens rendered it impossible for her to make and keep an Empire?
13. Give a brief account of any two of the following: The Etruscan wars; the career of Fabius Cunctator; the literary relations between Rome and Greece; the conquest of Gaul; the end of the Roman Republic.
14. What claims has Virgil to the title of the Poet of Imperial Rome?
15. Criticise one of the following statements: France produced no great monarch in the Middle Ages. The greatness of Spain was merely the result of the weakness of her rivals. Frederick the Great is rightly regarded as the hero of the 18th century.
16. What were the chief influences that prevented Italy from attaining national unity in the Middle Ages?
17. Illustrate the important part played by Holland and Sweden in European history between 1620 and 1720.
18. Write a brief explanatory note upon any two of the following: the Friars; the Reformation in Germany; the career of John Sobieski; British foreign policy under George I. and George II.; the Congress of Vienna (1814-1815); the Treaty of Berlin (1878).
19. What is the real debt of France to the Great Napoleon?
20. What internal reforms and what military successes made Prussia the leading power in Germany between 1850 and 1869?
21. What were the causes of the Civil War between the Northern and the Southern States in America? How was Great Britain affected by the conflict?
