HIGHER GRADE
(1894)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay, about two pages long, on one of the following subjects: The mental and moral uses of athletic sports; Courage, its nature and kinds; The Pilgrim’s Progress.
2. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning: [Provided text].
3. Parse the words italicised in Question 2. Give a general analysis of the following sentence: "To argue that these could not be his reasons, because they were not wise, sound and substantial, would be to suppose what is not true, that bad men are always discreet and able."
4. Take the quotation in Question 2, and write a list of the words in it which have a Latin origin. Give their derivations where you can. What do you know of the origin of such, the -ly of gloriously, the s of whilst, the -ed of gifted? Is the word gifted legitimately formed?
5. Point out, in the quotation in Question 2, one example of inversion, one of antithesis, one of epigram, two of alliteration, and two of metaphor. Turn one of the metaphors into a simile, and define metaphor and simile.
6. Point out, by reference to the quotation in Question 2, some characteristic differences between the native and the Romance elements of the English language.
7. Explain, as exactly as possible, the meaning of the following terms: irony, epic, ode, rhythm, rhyme, melodrama, Euphuism, Restoration Dramatists, Lake Poets.
8. In what works do the following characters appear: Sancho Panza, Meg Merrilies, Touchstone, Tito Melema, Griselda, George Warrington, Sir Roger de Coverley, Andrew Fairservice, Harold Skimpole, Sir Bedivere, Cassius, Sir Guyon, Moses Primrose, Ariel, Mr. Resistance, Mr. Micawber? Write short notes on four of these characters.
9. Name three authors born between 1320 and 1345, four between 1550 and 1565, three between 1660 and 1675, three between 1770 and 1775, four between 1800 and 1815. Show how the works of any one of these authors reflect the character of his time.
10. Correct any faults in the following sentences, and say why they are faults: [Provided examples].
