LOWER GRADE
(1911)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Place the following in their appropriate centuries: Reign of William the Lion, the Chartist Agitation, Marriage of James IV. and Margaret Tudor, the Long Parliament, the First Reform Bill, the Union of the Parliaments of England and Scotland, the Act of Security, the Third Crusade, the Seven Years War, the Norman Conquest, Marriage of Malcolm Canmore and Margaret, the Bishops’ Wars, the Battle of Cregy, the Battle of Neville’s Cross, the Battle of Flodden, the Conquest of Canada.
2. Choose any six of the above and write a single sentence of explanation on each. Choose any two of the above that were connected as cause and effect, and write a paragraph to bring out the connection.
3. What four peoples inhabited Scotland about 800 A.D., and how did they become one nation?
4. Why was Alexander III.’s death so calamitous to Scotland?
5. What different kinds of soldiers made up Bruce’s army at Bannockburn or Wallace’s army at Falkirk? Describe their weapons and mode of fighting.
6. What part did the nobles play in the Scottish Reformation?
7. Give some account of Cromwell’s rule in Scotland.
8. Describe the state of Scotland in the middle of the 18th century in respect of population, industries, appearance of the country, means of communication.
9. Explain any three of these terms: Celtic Church, Wars of the Congregation, the Five Articles of Perth, the Westminster Assembly, the Cameronians.
10. Sketch the careers of any two of these Scotsmen: Gavin Douglas, George Buchanan, Alexander Leslie, “Unfortunate Argyll,” Adam Smith, Sir John Moore, David Livingstone.
11. Tell what you know of any two of the following: Julius Caesar, Charlemagne, Alfred the Great, Chaucer, Columbus, Wolsey, John Milton, Louis XIV. of France, the elder Pitt, George Washington, Garibaldi.
12. Estimate the importance of Edward I.’s reign in English history.
13. Compare the relations of England to the Papacy in John’s reign and in Henry VIII.’s reign.
14. What great geographical discoveries were made in the 15th and 16th centuries, and what was their immediate effect upon England?
15. Summarize the events that led either to the English Civil War, or to the deposition of James II.
16. Describe the policy of Walpole at home and abroad, and its effect on Britain.
17. What events in British history are connected with these places: Cape St. Vincent, Cadiz Bay, Trafalgar, Gibraltar?
18. What were the main causes and consequences of the social distress that followed Waterloo?
