Higher Grade
1925
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition of about two pages on any one of the following: "What I want," said Mr. Gradgrind, "is Facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but Facts. Facts alone are wanted in life." Discuss Mr. Gradgrind’s theory of Education. "Self-government is more important than good government." "The world grows smaller every day." A Polar night. A character sketch of Charles II., or of William III., or of George III., or of Queen Victoria.
2. Read the following passage carefully and then answer the questions that follow it: Look next on Greatness; say where Greatness lies? "Where, but among the Heroes and the Wise?" Heroes are much the same, the point’s agreed, From Macedonia’s madman to the Swede; The whole strange purpose of their lives to find, Or make, an enemy of all mankind! Not one looks backward, onward still he goes, Yet ne’er looks forward farther than his nose. No less alike the Politic and Wise; All sly, slow things, with circumspective eyes: Men in their loose unguarded hours they take, Not that themselves are wise, but others weak. But grant that those can conquer, these can cheat; ’Tis phrase absurd to call a Villain Great: Who wickedly is wise, or madly brave, Is but the more a fool, the more a knave. Who noble ends by noble means obtains, Or failing, smiles in exile or in chains, Like good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed Like Socrates, that Man is great indeed. What two classes of men are popularly entitled "great"? What does the poet here mean by "Heroes"? How does he characterise them? And how does he dispose of their claim to greatness? With what class does he identify the "Wise"? How does he characterise them? And how dispose of their claim to greatness? To what class of men does he finally ascribe true greatness, and why? Who were "Macedonia’s madman," "good Aurelius," "Socrates"? Of what class does the poet give no examples? Supply two examples of this class yourself. Who do you think wrote these verses? What evidence of their authorship do you find in the verses themselves?
3. "No person has a better right than Lord Brougham to speak contemptuously of Cæsar. Cæsar was the purest and most Attic writer of his country; and there is no trace of intemperance, in thought or in expression, throughout the whole series of his hostilities. He was the most generous friend, he was the most placable enemy; he rose with moderation, and he fell with dignity. Can we wonder, then, at Lord Brougham’s unfeigned antipathy and assumed contempt? In the style of Cæsar there is calmness, there is precision, there is a perspicuity which shows objects in their proper size and position; there is strength without strain, and superiority without assertion." Give the meanings of the underlined words as used in this passage. Add the derivation where you can. Give the opposites of "calmness," "precision," "perspicuity," as applied to style. Distinguish between "strength" and "strain," and between "superiority" and "assertion."
4. Give a general analysis of the following stanza. Name the metre of the several lines, and point out the arrangement of the rhymes: "In autumn, on the skirts of Bagley Wood—Where most the gipsies by the turf-edged way Pitch their smoked tents, and every bush you see With scarlet patches tagg’d and shreds of grey, Above the forest-ground called Thessaly—The blackbird, picking food, Sees thee, nor stops his meal, nor fears at all; So often has he known thee past him stray, Rapt, twirling in thy hand a wither’d spray, And waiting for the spark from heaven to fall."
5. What words or expressions, literal or metaphorical, does our English vocabulary owe to any four of the following: the Crusades; chivalry and the tournament; hunting and hawking; alchemy and astrology; the East India trade; intercourse with Holland; Italian music; applications of electricity; the cinematograph; aerial navigation; wireless telephony?
