LOWER GRADE
(1910)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write a Composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following subjects: (a) The Life-history (in the form of an autobiography, if you choose) of a Butterfly, or of a Swallow, or of a Salmon. Do not attempt this subject unless you know something of Natural History. (b) Suppose yourself left for a day in charge of a "general merchant’s" shop in a country village; recount your experiences from morning till night. (c) An old soldier relates to his grandson his experiences as a trooper with Montrose, or as a Covenanter at Drumclog, or as a Jacobite in Prince Charlie’s retreat from Derby to Culloden, or with Moore at Corunna, or at the Relief of Lucknow.
3. Here are two versions of the same incident. The first is by Scott, the second by Campbell. Read both poems, and then: (a) Tell in simple language the one story which both poems relate. (b) Point out any facts, or details, in which the two poems differ. (c) Say which version you prefer, and why. (d) Name the metre.
4. Either (A) In the poems given in the previous question: (a) pick out all the words that would not be used in ordinary modern prose. (b) write notes on the meaning and formation of disease, heedless, welcome, forgot, silken. (c) give a general analysis of the last eight lines of Scott’s poem (from "He came—he pass’d—" to the end). (d) parse in these lines: gaze, glancing, spoke, prancing, whose. Or (B) Do three things with the following series of simple sentences: (a) work them up into a well-knit paragraph consisting of some half-dozen (complex or compound) sentences. (b) underline all the adjective clauses and adjective phrases in the paragraph you have made. (c) write notes on the meaning and derivation of terrific, breakers, horizon, intervals, aslant.
5. Either (A) Tell the story of Burns’s life. Mention some of the poems in which he has described the life and amusements of the Scottish people in his day, and give a fuller account of any one of them, quoting if you can. Or (B) What do you know of the story of King Arthur and his Round Table? Mention any English writers who have written on this subject or referred to it. Or (C) What poem begins thus? Who wrote it? What does it describe? Name some other poems that celebrate famous battles. Give the authors’ names, and quote if you can from one of them. Or (D) Describe fully any two of the following characters, naming the work in which he or she appears, and giving the author and the period: Una, Falstaff, Shylock, Hopeful, Sir Roger de Coverley, Dr. Primrose, Rev. Mr. Collins, Di Vernon, Jeanie Deans, Mr. Micawber, Mrs. Nickleby, Salvation Yeo, Mr. Grimes, Alan Breck, Mowgli.
