HIGHER GRADE
1901
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay, of about two pages, on one of the following subjects: The conditions of modern civilization, as favourable or deleterious to health. The relative value of Classics and of Modern Languages in a school curriculum.
2. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning: When I have borne in memory what has tamed Great Nations, how ennobling thoughts depart When men change swords for ledgers, and desert The student’s bower for gold, some fears unnamed I had, my Country—am I to be blamed? Now, when I think of thee, and what thou art, Verily, in the bottom of my heart, Of those unfilial fears I am ashamed. For dearly must we prize thee; we who find In thee a bulwark for the cause of men; And I by my affection was beguiled: What wonder if a Poet now and then, Among the many movements of his mind, Felt for thee as a lover or a child!
3. "The vocabulary of a language may be borrowed, but its grammar is its own." Explain these two statements, and illustrate from the above passage their application to English.
4. Make a general analysis of the following sentence: "By observing in their dedications what qualities our writers think it will be most pleasing to others to compliment them with, one may form some judgment which are most so to themselves, and in consequence, what sort of people they are." Parse the eight words italicized in the following sentence: "As we have but half an hour to-morrow, all to-morrow’s lessons but that on geography will be taken the day after."
5. Give the derivation of the following words, and show how each has acquired its present meaning: candid, extravagant, recreation, influence, lunatic, cynical, tantalize, rival, corroborate, vulgar.
6. Explain, and illustrate by an example, what is meant by each of the following terms: synonym, bathos, hybrid, tautology, hyperbole, heroic couplet, pastoral poem, archaism, alliteration, gerundial infinitive.
7. Point out the faults in the following sentences; explain why you consider them faults, and re-write each sentence in an improved form: Socrates, who was at one time a diligent scientific observer, then turned his back upon Nature in order to concentrate it upon Man. He said there were men in the parish who have been accustomed to go over the roads now closed from their earliest days. Her hand was so severely injured, that unless she has her forefinger amputated she will entirely lose the use of it. Some say that the Duke is dead, others that he is alive; for my part I believe neither. Have we an intuitive apprehension of the difference between right and wrong; and if not, how do we come by it?
8. Take each of the following subjects, and describe any poem, or passage from prose or verse, which treats of it, giving any quotations you can: childhood, death, patriotism, love of nature, country life.
