HIGHER GRADE
(1937)
HISTORY
PAPER: 3
1. Show briefly the historical significance of five of the following: Peace of Wedmore (878); Death of Alexander III; Battle of Bosworth; Petition of Right; Secret Treaty of Dover (1670); Battle of Culloden; Berlin Decree; The Catholic Emancipation Act (1829); Jameson Raid; Locarno Pact.
2. Either (a) Give an account of the Roman Occupation of Britain; Or (b) Estimate the influence of the Crusades on European civilisation.
3. (a) Do you think that Henry II or Edward I has the better claim to be called "the greatest of the Plantagenets"? Give your reasons. (b) Do you agree with the view that James I (1406-37) was the greatest of the Stewarts? Give your reasons. (c) What were the most striking effects of the Italian Renaissance on European society, art and general culture?
4. Either (a) Explain the parts played in the Age of Discovery by Portugal, Spain and England before 1558. Or (b) Explain the social and economic changes of the sixteenth century in England and show what steps Elizabeth took to remedy the grievances to which they gave rise.
5. Do you think that the Revolution of 1688 effected greater changes in England or in Scotland? Give your reasons.
6. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: Cardinal Wolsey; Andrew Melville; Sir Walter Raleigh; Henry IV of France; Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Strafford; Sir Isaac Newton; James, first Earl Stanhope (d. 1721); Duncan Forbes of Culloden.
7. Do you consider that the elder or the younger Pitt rendered the greater services to his country? Give reasons for your view.
8. Either (a) Explain the importance of the Turkish problem in Europe between 1815 and 1878. Or (b) Trace the steps by which the franchise has been extended in Britain in the years subsequent to 1832.
9. Either (a) Explain the causes and note the principal events of the American Civil War. Or (b) "The policy of Mr. Gladstone showed him to be a true disciple of Sir Robert Peel." To what extent and on what grounds do you agree with this statement?
10. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: Charles James Fox; the first Duke of Wellington; the first Earl of Durham; Cardinal Newman; Thomas Huxley; General Gordon; Joseph Chamberlain; Lord Kelvin; Marshal Joffre.
11. Give some account of one of the following: (a) Reasons for the abandonment of democratic government in some continental countries since the war. (b) The system of mandates under the League of Nations, illustrating your answer from the history of any one mandated territory since 1919. (c) The chief industrial changes in Britain since 1910.
