HIGHER GRADE
(1930)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. The accompanying map shows a part of the Southern Uplands of Scotland. Draw a contoured sketch-map of the headstreams of the Tweed and of the Annan, and annotate your map. Compare the water-parting here with that between the headstream of the Evan Water and the Clyde.
2. The map shows part of the main railway to Carlisle; a main road fit for fast traffic; a main road fit for ordinary traffic. Describe the course of each in relation to the relief, indicating the significance of the route followed in each case. Add a note on some of the minor roadways shown.
3. Describe, illustrating by a contoured sketch-map, the precise position of Moffat, and discuss its relation to the lines of communication within the area shown.
4. What are the essential features of the geography of Scotland? Your answer should take the form of a brief, concise description such as would be useful to one who knew nothing of the country.
5. Explain, with the help of diagrams, how you could ascertain in the field the width of a broad river and the gradient of a gently-sloping bank.
6. Give a reasoned account of the main kinds of traffic carried on between the North Sea ports of Britain and Baltic ports.
7. Describe the region of the South Wales coalfield, naming the chief towns. State the chief industries carried on, and point out the advantages which the area possesses for the prosecution of these.
8. Draw a sketch-map either of the Iberian or of the Italian peninsula, and give some account of the geography of the selected area.
9. What is meant by the Mediterranean type of climate? Name the parts of the world in which this climatic type occurs, and describe briefly, with special reference to agricultural products, one area outside Europe possessing this kind of climate.
10. Discuss, with illustrative diagrams, the effects of rivers on the surface of the land.
11. Name the chief land-masses crossed by the tropic of Cancer, and give a reasoned account of the contrasts between them as regards climate and products.
12. Select one well-defined type of forest, name an area in which it occurs, and describe its characteristics, relating these to the physical conditions. State also the chief products of the forest selected.
13. Give an account, illustrated by a sketch-map, of the area drained by one of the following rivers: Mississippi-Missouri, Murray-Darling, Orange, Niger.
