HIGHER GRADE
(1895)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay, about two pages long, on one of the following subjects: Your experiences during the late severe frost; What trade or profession would you like to enter, and why?
2. Convey the full meaning of the following sonnet in ordinary English prose: Milton on His Blindness.
3. Parse the words italicised in the above sonnet. Give a general analysis of the lines as far as I fondly ask, so as to show exactly how the clauses are related to one another.
4. Give the derivations of ten words in the above sonnet, and of why, seldom, but.
5. Convey the exact sense of the following passage in simpler language, avoiding, as far as possible, the use of any words of classical origin. Underline any non-Teutonic words in your version.
6. Improve the following sentences, and give reasons for the alterations you make.
7. Classify the letters in the English alphabet according to the sounds they represent, and illustrate its main phonetic defects.
8. State at what periods, and in what ways, the English language has been influenced by Latin and by French.
9. Explain accurately, and illustrate by an example, the meaning of the following terms: blank verse, euphemism, elegy, ballad, heroic couplet, cavalier poets, mixed metaphor, tautology, idyll.
10. In what works do the following characters appear: Orlando, Shylock, Will Wimble, Ophelia, Colonel Newcome, Dr. Primrose, Cordelia, Bill Sikes. Describe, briefly, any two of these characters.
11. Name any three important works written or published between 1350 and 1400, between 1550 and 1600, between 1660 and 1688, between 1750 and 1800. Describe fully any one of the twelve works you name.
12. Describe the character of any one of the following sovereigns, and give a connected account of his or her reign: William I; Edward III; Henry V; Mary, Queen of Scots; James II; Anne; William IV.
13. Describe, so as to show their importance, any four events in the following list: The landing of Augustine in England, The cession of Lothian to the Scots, The Danish invasions, The Battle of Bouvines, The coming of the Friars, The Black Death and the Statute of Labourers, The Siege of Orleans, The Battle of Flodden, The fall of Wolsey, Babington’s Plot, The Hampton Court Conference, Tonnage and Poundage, The Solemn League and Covenant, The Conventicle and Five Mile Acts, The Battle of the Boyne, The South Sea Bubble, The East India Company, The Gordon Riots, The Abolition of Slavery, The Ballot Act.
14. Give a detailed account of any two of the following: The influence of the Norman Conquest, The origin of the Scottish War of Independence, The progress of the English Reformation from Henry VIII to Elizabeth, The career of Oliver Cromwell, The effects upon the English Constitution of the Revolution of 1688, The two Jacobite risings in the Eighteenth Century, The origin of the American War of Independence, The Acts by which the Franchise has been extended during the Nineteenth Century.
15. Define, and state generally what you know about, the following: Free Trade and Protection, the Budget, the Privy Council, the Court of Chancery, Direct Taxation, Imperial Federation.
16. Explain, fully, the lines usually found on globes.
17. What countries border on the Baltic? What are the chief Baltic ports, and in what does their trade consist?
18. What countries in Europe are best supplied with railways and telegraphs, and what are most poorly supplied? Give the reasons in each case.
19. Write a short account of the build of South America, under the heads of plateaux, mountain ranges, plains. State what you know about the Amazon, and the Cassiquiare.
20. Write a short account of the geography of India; and give the names of the chief peoples, languages, and religions.
21. State what you know about the six chief trading cities of China.
