HIGHER GRADE
(1926)
HISTORY
PAPER 1
1. How far does Tennyson’s line “Saxon and Norman and Dane are we” accurately describe the racial origins of the inhabitants of either England or Scotland?
2. Illustrate and account for the frequency of rebellions in England between the Norman Conquest and the death of Henry III.
3. Either write a brief estimate of the character and career of Edward I from the point of view of a contemporary Englishman and a contemporary Scotsman, or contrast the policy of Edward I with that of Edward III.
4. Explain the importance of three of the following: the First Crusade, the Black Death, Lollardy, the career of Joan of Arc, the quarrel between Edward IV and Warwick, the fall of the Black Douglases, the Battle of Flodden, the Council of Constance.
5. Show how religious controversy affected questions of foreign policy between the reign of Henry VIII and the death of James VI and I.
6. Either discuss how national feeling influenced the rise of Cromwell and William III, or illustrate the growth of British dominions overseas between the death of Elizabeth and Anne, or estimate the importance of three events: the Poor Law of 1601, the Solemn League and Covenant, the Popish Plot, the Siege of Londonderry, the Battle of Blenheim, the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
7. Draw a map to illustrate any one of the following and explain the importance of the places marked: the Wars of the Roses; the Great Civil War; the Rising of 1745-46; the campaign of Quebec; the growth of towns after the Industrial Revolution.
8. Either explain the opposition faced by Sir Robert Walpole, or discuss topics such as British India up to Warren Hastings, the causes of the 1793 war with France, or the importance of sea power between 1793 and 1815.
9. Tell what you know of any one of the following: the struggle for Parliamentary Reform up to 1832; the transformation of colonies into Dominions; the causes of British commercial prosperity in the nineteenth century.
10. Give some account of any one of the following and Great Britain’s role: the struggle for Greek Independence; the union of Italy; the American Civil War; Egypt and the Sudan.
