HIGHER GRADE
(1932)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a Composition, not exceeding three foolscap pages in length, on any one of the following subjects: An Ideal Home; Is it better to be brought up in the country, or in the town?; The effect of modern transport on the life of the individual and the nation, and on international relationships; What are the qualities you consider most valuable in a friend?; Do you consider that the influence of the Cinematograph is on the whole harmful, or beneficial, to the youth of the present day?
2. Read the following passage through and then answer the questions that follow it: State very briefly (1) what enemy it is that "every man from his youth up" must fight; (2) how this enemy is to be recognised; and (3) how defeated. Paraphrase briefly ultimate issue, human scapegoats, self-constituted Ishmaelite and centrifugal path. Give (1) the meaning, (2) the derivation of: permanent, distorting, perspective and signal. Explain the metaphors contained in the sentence beginning "It is a signal instance." Comment on the order of the words in the clause "whose ultimate issue is of all things the most unsure."
3. Read the following verses and answer the questions that follow: Give a general grammatical analysis of the above. Explain the meaning of "below" and "spacious." Have you heard elsewhere of stars singing? Quote if you can. Paraphrase the first line and the last.
4. Without altering the order of the words, re-write the following as a rhyming stanza of six lines, correctly punctuated: "Beautiful must be the mountains whence ye come and bright in the fruitful valleys the streams wherefrom ye learn your song where are those starry woods o might I wander there among the flowers which in that heavenly air bloom the year long."
5. Write down one example of each of the following figures of speech: Metonymy, epigram, antithesis, onomatopoeia. Construct sentences, each of which will contain one of the following words correctly used: allusive, elusive, credible, credulous, ingenious, ingenuous, euphemism, euphuism.
