HIGHER GRADE
1890
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay of two or three pages on one of the following subjects: The influence of different professions on character. The history of novel-writing in England. The respective advantages of classical and of mathematical studies. The effects of commercial prosperity on a nation.
2. Give the derivations of the following words: Custom, Feeble, Talkative, Venison, Fancy, Umpire, Doff, Asterisk, Daisy, Perhaps, Farthing, Disease, Mathematics, Arrive.
3. What remains of inflexion have we in substantives and verbs? What do you know of the origin of these inflexions?
4. What did our language gain, and what did it lose, by the Norman Conquest?
5. What do you know of the introduction of printing into England, and of its effects on literature?
6. Describe any play by Shakespeare, or any poem by Milton, that you have read.
7. Give some account of the works of any two writers who were living (a) in the reign of Richard II (2); (b) in the reign of James IV (4) of Scotland; (c) in the year of the Spanish Armada; (d) in the reign of Queen Anne; (e) in the year of the battle of Waterloo.
8. Write a full account of any poem that you know by Burns, or Scott, or Tennyson, and show how it illustrates the qualities of the writer’s genius.
9. Analyse the following, explaining the principles upon which you base your analysis: But, as it sometimes chanceth, from the might Of joy in minds that can no further go, As high as we have mounted in delight In our dejection do we sink as low, To me that morning did it happen so; And fears and fancies thick upon me came, Dim sadness and blind thoughts, I knew not, nor could name.
10. Write a short account of the life and work of King Alfred.
11. "Feudalism took firmer root in Scotland than it ever did in England." Explain and comment on this statement.
12. What do you know of Domesday Book, the Constitutions of Clarendon, and the provisions of Magna Charta?
13. Sketch the policy of Edward I (1) towards Scotland and Wales.
14. What were the permanent effects of the Wars of the Roses?
15. Describe the policy of Queen Elizabeth in Ecclesiastical matters.
16. Explain the main difficulties which Cromwell had to meet in carrying on the government of the Commonwealth.
17. What were the most important events in the history of Scotland during the reign of Charles II (2)?
18. What do you know of the Toleration Act, the rise of the Wesleyan movement, and the causes of the fall of Walpole?
19. Write an account and estimate of the policy of the younger Pitt.
20. What additions have been made to the British Empire since the Accession of Queen Victoria?
21. Indicate on an outline map the racial differences of the inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland, including the main islands.
22. Name five of the chief towns either in the Southern Lowlands of Scotland, or in Yorkshire and Lancashire, and mention the chief industries of each.
23. In what parts of Great Britain and Ireland are wheat, oats, hops, potatoes, and apples respectively most cultivated?
24. Draw a map of South Africa, indicating the physical features and political divisions; or draw a map of the larger West Indian islands, indicating the British possessions and their commercial importance.
25. Draw a map of Central Europe, showing the distribution of the mountain ranges and the plains, and pointing out some political effects of this distribution.
