LOWER GRADE
(1892)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following lines.
3. Analyse the first four lines of the above quotation.
4. Which of the words in the passage quoted in Question 2 are of classical origin? Give the derivations of five of these words. Point out native suffixes in any words in the passage.
5. Parse the italicised words in the following sentences.
6. Distinguish, with a few illustrations, the principal ways of marking gender in English nouns.
7. Explain the meaning of the terms strong verb, impersonal verb, mood, tense. How does the clause *If I were guilty* differ in meaning from the clause *If I was guilty*? How does the sentence *His influence increased year by year* differ in meaning from the sentence *His influence has increased year by year*?
8. Give some account of the state of English literature during one of the following periods.
9. Describe two famous English works from the following groups.
10. Point out, and correct, any faults in the following sentences.
11. Write a short life of Alfred the Great, or of Ethelred the Unready, showing the effects upon the history of England of the policy pursued by either.
12. Give an account of the various risings that William the Conqueror had to suppress, with special reference to the part played by Malcolm Canmore. When did the Norman Baronage cease to be troublesome to the English Kings?
13. Sketch the course of events that led to the granting of the Great Charter, and enumerate some of its most important provisions.
14. Sketch the history of Scotland from the death of Alexander III. down to the defeat of Wallace.
15. Give a brief account of each of the following: The Black Death, the Statute of Labourers, the Statute of Præmunire, the Peasants’ Revolt, the Merciless Parliament.
16. Explain the various circumstances that brought about the Wars of the Roses, and trace the history of the wars down to the death of Henry VI.
17. “The Tudors were all popular when they obtained the crown, and unpopular before they died.” How far is this true?
18. Give some account of the reign of James VI. of Scotland before his accession to the English throne, and of the various subjects on which he quarrelled with the English Parliament.
19. What were the causes of the War of the Spanish Succession? Narrate the history of the campaign of Blenheim, or of the capture of Gibraltar, and give some account of the terms on which peace was made.
20. Write a short life of the younger Pitt, explaining the circumstances under which he became Prime Minister, his domestic policy, his views of the French Revolution, his Irish policy, and the causes of his resignation.
21. A vessel sails from Aberdeen to Hull, calling at all the chief ports. What kind of cargo might she hope to pick up at each, and what headlands or capes might she sight?
22. Name the principal centres of deep-sea fishery in Scotland, and the places in Scotland to which you would send for cotton goods, iron, whisky, coal, steamers, tweed, wheat.
23. Draw a map of England south of the Severn and west of Wiltshire, or a map of the four northern counties of England.
24. Draw a map of Spain, showing the chief physical features, or a map of the Balkan Peninsula, showing the political divisions.
25. Give some account of the discovery of Australia, of the difficulties encountered in exploring the interior of it, of any animals or plants peculiar to it, and of its political divisions and government.
