LOWER GRADE
1899
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects:— Some of the advantages of living in Scotland. Some points of interest connected with your neighbourhood.
3. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning:— In full-blown dignity see Wolsey stand, Law in his voice and fortune in his hand. To him the Church, the realm, their powers consign ; Through him the rays of regal bounty shine ; Turned by his nod, the stream of honour flows; His smile alone security bestows. At length his sovereign frowns ; the train of state Mark the keen glance, and watch the sign to hate. Where’er he turns, he meets a stranger’s eye ; His suppliants scorn him, and his followers fly. With age, with cares, with maladies oppressed, He seeks the refuge of monastic rest. Grief aids disease, remembered folly stings ; And his last sighs reproach the faith of kings.
4. What is meant by grammatical analysis? Make a general analysis of the following sentence:— “As I was leaving, he asked me what I was going to say to the man, should he address me in the way he had addressed him.”
5. Point out the difference between oblique and direct speech ; and turn the sentence in question 4 into direct speech. Parse the italicized words in the following sentences: I was listening all the time. Come in, and sit near the fire.
6. Distinguish between the meanings of pinciple and principal, decease and disease, consuls and consols, stationery and stationary, comicil and counsel, and illustrate the meaning of each word by a sentence in which it is used.
7. Correct the following sentences, and give reasons for any alterations you make: He did no more than it was his duty to have done. Such habits are very apt to degenerate our characters. Glasgow is larger than any city in Scotland. We were introduced to the others present, whom we thought were all very nice people. The magistrate in reply said, that he would endeavour to administer justice without leaning either to partiality on the one hand or to impartiality on the other.
8. Explain what is meant by the following terms: satire, elegy, epic, tragedy, allegory. Mention (with author’s name) a work of each kind and give some account of any one of those you name.
9. In what century did each of the following authors live: Goldsmith, Bunyan, Chaucer, Macaulay, Spenser. State shortly what you know of the life and works of any one of them.
10. Write a connected account of the character and career of any of the following: Alfred, Harold, Richard I, Simon de Montfort, Richard II, Henry V, Cranmer, Hampden, William III, Chatham, Wellington, Peel.
11. State clearly the meaning of any two of the following, and give any facts you know connected with them, so as to show their importance in British history: Witenagemote, Danelagh, Feudalism, Trade-guilds, Benevolences and Forced Loans, Habeas Corpus Act, Religious Tests, Free Trade, Franchise, Royal Prerogative, Constitutional Monarchy.
12. Explain the circumstances that brought about any one of the following wars, briefly trace its history, and give some account of its results: The Hundred Years’ War with France, the Wars of the Roses, the Civil War of the Seventeenth Century, the War of the Spanish Succession, the War of American Independence, the Napoleonic War, the Crimean War.
13. Draw a map of any one county in the British Isles, marking carefully the position of its hills, rivers, and towns, and indicating what lies outside its borders. Give also an account of its vegetation, minerals, and industries.
14. Describe the principal coal-fields in the British Isles, and state what industries are carried on in each.
15. Write a short account of Australia, or of China, under the heads of rivers, climate, vegetation, minerals, means of communication.
16. Mention the first three commercial ports of France, of Germany, and of Russia respectively. Give their position, and state what they export.
17. Take five of the following places, and state fully to what causes they owe their commercial importance: Chicago, Cardiff, Winnipeg, Bombay, Montreal, San Francisco, Glasgow, New Orleans, Buenos Ayres.
18. Indicate the position of the following, and state any facts you know about them: The Philippine Islands, Sedan, Klondike, Crete, Cuba.
