LOWER GRADE
(1915)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1a. Insert in their proper places the following names: River Meuse, Sumatra, Malta, River Senegal, River Colorado, Somaliland, Desert of Gobi, River Darling, Dardanelles.
1b. Show by dots the positions of the following towns and write the name of each close to the dot: Warsaw, Rio de Janeiro, Zanzibar, Hong Kong, Adelaide, Walfisch Bay, Dunkirk, Benares, Chicago.
1c. The positions of five towns, a, b, c, d, e, are shown on the map. State the approximate longitude and latitude of each, and give the names of the towns.
2a. Insert in their proper places the following names: South Downs, Hawick, Lough Neagh, Grimsby, Montrose, Snowdon, Wexford, Lincoln, Airdrie, River Barrow.
2b. Show by shading the principal Scottish coal-fields. Insert in each the name of one town engaged in the coal-mining industry, and the name of one port of export.
2c. Draw the route followed by one of the main railway lines between Edinburgh and London. Mark four important towns along the line in addition to the termini. Measure the distance between Edinburgh and London along the railway line, and write your answer along the line.
3. How far has the geographical position of the following towns exercised an appreciable influence on their history or their industrial development: Perth, London, Carlisle?
4. In what parts of the United Kingdom are the following manufactures chiefly carried on: cotton, linen, woollen? Select one of the districts and show what advantages it possesses for the manufacture named.
5. Contrast the position and natural wealth of the plains of Scotland with those of the plains of Ireland, and show how the difference has affected the development of the agriculture and industries of the two countries.
6. Draw a sketch map of the Iberian Peninsula. Indicate high ground by shading. Insert and name the principal rivers and six of the chief towns.
7a. When it is noon at a place P it is 2.20 p.m. at Greenwich. What is the longitude of P?
7b. In 1895 Nansen reached Latitude 86½° N. How many miles was he from the North Pole?
8. Describe briefly the position, physical features and climate of any one of the following countries, and show how these things affect the manner of life of its inhabitants: Holland, Japan, Egypt, Argentina, New Zealand.
9. What geographical discoveries are connected with the following names: The Cabots, Vasco da Gama, Captain Cook, Mungo Park, Marco Polo? Give a fuller account of any one of these explorers.
