HIGHER GRADE
(1960)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 2
1. Select a major Scottish industry and write a geographical description of it. Or Select one of the major agricultural areas of Great Britain and give an account of the types of farming found there.
2. Compare and contrast either the Highlands of Scotland east and west of their main watershed or north and south Wales.
3. In what ways do three of the following ports resemble and differ from each other as regards position and importance: Liverpool; London; Hull; Glasgow?
4. What are the main features of pastoral farming in Mediterranean lands and Switzerland? Bring out the importance of relief and climate and show how the practices of the two areas differ.
5. Show that the distribution of population in either Sweden or the Iberian Peninsula reflects the general geography of the area. Or Write a geographical essay on the importance of the sea and mountains in the life of the Norwegians.
6. Compare and contrast either the Rhone Corridor and the Rhine Rift Valley or Belgium and the Plain of Lombardy. Or Write a geographical description of either the Ruhr or the Donetz Basin.
7. With the aid of sketch-maps consider the advantages and disadvantages of site and the importance of New York, San Francisco, and New Orleans.
8. Write a geographical description of one of the following: The Canadian Shield, the Great Basin, the piedmont and coastal plain from New York to the northern boundary of Florida.
9. Why does the vast majority of the population of Canada live in the extreme south of the country? What possibilities are there for more intensive settlement farther north? Or Explain why more than half of the population of U.S.A. lives east of the Mississippi. Comment on the growth of population in California.
10. Comment on the position and importance of Karachi, Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras, and discuss the suitability of the port facilities available to Eastern Pakistan.
11. Show how the physical geography of one of the following areas has conditioned the life of its inhabitants: Tibet; Arabia; Irrawaddy Delta; Mesopotamia; the tundra of Siberia; the Red Basin of China.
12. Describe the distribution and development of either the oil resources of south-west Asia or the mineral resources of Siberia.
13. Describe and account for the parallelism seen in the vegetation zones of Africa north and south of the equator.
14. Write a geographical account of the export and import trade of New Zealand paying special attention to its world position. Or Relate rainfall and agriculture in Australia. What has been done to overcome water scarcity?
15. Where and what are the llanos, the campos, and the pampas? How do they differ in development and why?
