HIGHER GRADE
(1921)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following subjects: (a) Robert the Bruce; John Knox; Robert Burns. Describe the character of any one of these great men, showing what he did for Scotland and why his memory is cherished by Scotsmen. (b) Discuss the reasons for learning any one of these languages: Latin, Greek, French, German, Spanish. Consider the linguistic training it affords, the literature it opens up, its practical value for life, etc. (c) From your own observation, or from what you have read, describe any one of the following: an auction; a boat-race; a military funeral; a hunt; private theatricals; a trial by jury; a tournament.
2. The following passage describes how the Roman Emperor Julian transported his fleet from the Euphrates to the Tigris. (a) Make a sketch-map showing the Euphrates, Tigris, Ctesiphon, Coche, Julian’s camp, the old line of the canal (Nahar-Malcha), and the new canal dug by Julian. (b) Explain briefly the two dangers Julian foresaw if his fleet should follow the old canal. (c) Give the precise meaning of the sentence printed in italics.
3. (a) Give the precise meaning of the following words as used by Gibbon: adjacent, impracticable, sallies, derivation, copious, intermediate, vestiges, obliterated, indefatigable, derided. (b) Make sentences using: allusion/illusion; casual/causal; eminent/imminent; notable/notorious; precedent/president. (c) Rewrite the following sentences in correct English: Peggy would have liked to have worn her turban. We must reconcile what we would like to do with what we can do. You may rely upon me doing all in my power. How contemptible is the contempt of menials for those whom they imagine are poor! He prefers to write at excessive length than to leave his meaning obscure.
4. From what works of history or fiction have you obtained the best picture of the Middle Ages? Discuss the knightly character as presented in these works.
5. The Merchant of Venice; King Henry IV., Part I.; Twelfth Night; Macbeth. Choose any one: point out scenes where Shakespeare employs prose and explain why he does so.
6. To what species of poetry do these belong: Lycidas, The Rape of the Lock, The Bard, The Deserted Village, Tam o’ Shanter? Select one and give an account of its substance and form.
7. What forms of English prose were brought to a high level in the 18th century? Name and describe one or two eminent examples.
8. Contrast Wordsworth and Coleridge; Byron and Shelley; Tennyson and Browning as men and poets.
9. Compare two of these fictional heroes: Frank Osbaldistone, Nicholas Nickleby, Clive Newcome, Evan Harrington, David Balfour.
10. What living English or Scottish writer is most likely to be famous in a hundred years? Give reasons.
