Higher Grade
1896
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects: (a) Spring wild flowers. (b) Your favourite holiday occupation. (c) A comparison of Treasure Island (or any other modern book of adventure) with Robinson Crusoe.
2. Paraphrase the following poem so as to bring out the full meaning: O Friend! I know not which way I must look For comfort being as I am opprest To think that now our life is only drest For show; mean handiwork of craftsman cook Or groom!—We must run glittering like a brook In the open sunshine or we are unblest; The wealthiest man among us is the best: No grandeur now in Nature or in book Delights us. Rapine avarice expense This is idolatry; and these we adore: Plain living and high thinking are no more; The homely beauty of the good old cause Is gone; our peace our fearful innocence And pure religion breathing household laws. Name and describe the metrical structure of the above poem. What is meant by the heroic measure (or iambic pentameter) and by the romantic measure (or iambic tetrameter)? What are the principal kinds of verse or of stanza that have been made of these in English poetry? Quote an example of each kind you mention.
3. Point out any figures of speech that occur in the above poem. Define metonymy hyperbole anticlimax; and illustrate each by an example. Give the origin and meaning of the following abbreviations: i.e. e.g. viz. R.S.V.P.
4. Make a general analysis of the following sentence: "Fatally deficient as the Revolution was in positive principles yet as time cools our passion and gives us a juster perspective this will become more and more clear that the lawlessness of the last ten years of the century was less not greater than that which had been universal since the Regency." Explain accurately and illustrate by an example the meaning of each of the following terms: parenthetic sentence finite verb synthetic language apodosis.
5. Parse the words italicised in the following sentences and give in each case the origin and exact meaning of the grammatical usage: (a) I am going to-morrow. (b) Read Burke than whom none is more eloquent. (c) Two a penny. (d) Since then I have not seen him. (e) I was asked the same question.
6. Explain carefully the ambiguity and the causes of ambiguity in the following sentences; and re-write each so as to express clearly and definitely one of its possible interpretations: (a) My Christian and surname begin and end with the same letter. (b) So I promised to say nothing which I hoped would conciliate him. (c) He maintained that publicans detested drunkards as much as teetotalers. (d) The manuscript contains only one religious poem by Henryson. (e) When did you tell him you would come?
7. Name with a short description or with quotations poems in which the following are celebrated or referred to: Agincourt Venice Flodden Nelson Blenheim Cromwell Corunna Kempenfelt.
8. Illustrate from Chaucer or Shakespeare or Scott each of the following: pathos humour terror irony hypocrisy; and add a brief criticism to show what seems to you admirable in the scenes or passages you mention.
