HIGHER GRADE
(1960)
HISTORY
PAPER: 2
1. Describe life in Athens in the time of Pericles.
2. Explain the reasons for the rise and fall of Thebes in the fourth century.
3. Show the main events in the struggle between patricians and plebeians down to the passing of the Lex Hortensia.
4. Why did the Civil Wars break out in 49 B.C. and why did they end in the victory of Augustus?
5. Explain and compare the policies of Trajan and Hadrian.
6. Write notes on two of the following: Cleisthenes of Athens; the Persian campaign against Greece in 480; Spartan education; the organisation of Alexander’s empire; the Samnite Wars; Tiberius Gracchus.
7. On what grounds may the Franks be considered more important than the Goths?
8. What degree of success was achieved by the First Crusade? Why were the later Crusades less successful?
9. Compare the importance of Gregory VII and Innocent III in the history of the mediaeval church.
10. Do you consider that Philip II (Augustus) or Philip IV did the more for France?
11. What do you know of the Continental universities in the Middle Ages?
12. Write notes on two of the following: Hugh Capet; the Normans in Southern Italy and Sicily; St. Francis of Assisi; the Hanseatic League; the rise of the Swiss Confederation; Joan of Arc.
13. On what grounds may the rise of nation-states on the Continent of Europe be dated from the latter half of the fifteenth century?
14. Estimate the effects of the Reformation on Germany in the sixteenth century.
15. To what extent and for what reasons did the power of Spain threaten the rest of Europe in the reign of Philip II?
16. How far does Henry IV deserve the reputation of having been amongst the best of the French kings?
17. Trace and account for the growth in importance of Brandenburg-Prussia between the Peace of Westphalia (1648) and that of Aix-la-Chapelle (1748).
18. Write notes on two of the following: the Capture of Constantinople; Ivan the Terrible; Cardinal Mazarin; the religious policy of Louis XIV; the Peace of Utrecht; the Pragmatic Sanction of Charles VI.
19. Why did Joseph II fail as an enlightened despot?
20. What were the chief political and social defects of the ancien regime in France? How far were they remedied before the fall of the monarchy in 1792?
21. Compare the policy of Napoleon I towards Italy with that of Napoleon III.
22. Why may Germany be called a “satiated power” by 1871? What effect did this have on Bismarck’s later diplomacy?
23. Do you consider that the war of 1914-1918 would have broken out if the Sarajevo assassinations had not occurred?
24. Write notes on two of the following: Baron von Stein; the Zollverein; the Second French Republic; Giuseppe Garibaldi; the Austro-Hungarian Ausgleich; The Dreyfus Case.
