LOWER GRADE
(1915)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following: Either (a) Your first day in school. Or (b) Invent, or reproduce, a short story to illustrate the proverb “A stitch in time saves nine.” Or (c) Discuss, in the form of a dialogue, the relative merits of the Highlands and the Seaside as places in which to spend the summer holidays.
2a. Tell, in your own words, the story which forms the subject of the following poem. Take the facts from the poem itself. Be careful to distinguish the introduction, the prophecy, and the conclusion.
2b. Explain the expressions italicised.
3a. Give a detailed analysis of the first six lines of the above poem (“When the British .... hoary chief”).
3b. Explain carefully the meaning of—when, matchless, progeny, prophetic, awful as used in the above poem.
4a. Write a short note on each of the following phrases, explaining the meaning: the curse of Cain; the Benjamin of the family; a Leviathan ship; to do a thing at the eleventh hour; to hide one’s light under a bushel.
4b. Write a short letter of thanks to your hostess after paying a visit.
5a. What poems begin with these lines? Name the authors, if you can; and give a full account of any one of the poems, quoting freely from it.
5b. Describe any one of these, naming book and author.
5c. Reproduce from any book you have read (naming book and author) a description of a trial; or of a duel; or of an escape from prison; or of a whale-hunt.
6. Whether originally of a timid temperament or not, he was certainly possessed of perfect courage at last. In siege and battle, in the deadly air of pestilential cities, in the long exhaustion of mind and body which comes from unduly protracted labour and anxiety, amid the countless conspiracies of assassins, he was daily exposed to death in every shape. Rank and fortune were offered to any malefactor who would compass his murder. Under such circumstances even a brave man might have seen a pitfall at every step. On the contrary, he was ever cheerful, and hardly took more precaution than usual. “God in His mercy,” said he, with unaffected simplicity, “will maintain my innocence and my honour during my life and in future ages. As to my fortune and my life, I have dedicated both, long since, to His service.”
