Lower Grade
1908
ENGLISH
1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write a composition of about two pages on one of the following subjects: (a) Describe a football, cricket, or hockey match first from the point of view of a player, then from the point of view of a bystander. (b) Imagine yourself on holiday in a rather remote part of Scotland; write to a school friend, describing the locality, telling how you have spent your time, and finally inviting him (or her) to join you. Give precise instructions as to the route. (c) A poor girl, who played children’s parts in a theatre, one night received a guinea from the treasurer in mistake for half-a-guinea, which was her weekly wage. She started off with it, repented, and took it back to the treasurer. Tell this story more fully and dramatically, as you would tell it to a younger brother or sister; conclude it as you please, describing the interview between the girl and the treasurer as you imagine it.
3. Read the following poem from beginning to end. Then (a) Give in plain narrative form the essential facts of the story, whether expressed or only implied in the poem. (b) Point out two or three places where the poet has departed from this plain narrative form. (c) Select the stanza that you like best, and say why you prefer it.
4. Pick out in the above poem (Question 3) five words and five constructions that would not be used in ordinary modern prose; and say what words and constructions you would use in their place in ordinary prose.
5. Parse the words in italics in the following lines: (1) Nor tempt the stormy firth to-day. (2) Last night the gifted seer did view a wet shroud swathed round lady gay. (3) Why cross the gloomy firth to-day? (4) 'Tis not because the ring they ride. And analyse: Seem’d all on fire that chapel proud. Where Roslin’s chiefs uncoffined lie, Each Baron, for a sable shroud, Sheathed in his iron panoply.
6. Describe the personal appearance and individual traits of any well-drawn character that you have read about recently in prose literature (essay or fiction). Give the name of the work in which this character figures; give the author’s name; and indicate roughly the period to which the author belongs.
7. Give a short account of the subject of any one of the following poems; describe the metre; name the author (if you can) and indicate his period; and quote several (six or eight) consecutive lines: Chevy Chase, The Battle of Agincourt, II Penseroso, Alexander’s Feast, Elegy written in a Country Churchyard, The Deserted Village, The Twa Dogs, Christabel, Peter Bell, Morte D’Arthur, The Forsaken Merman.
8. Arrange the following events (or as many of them as you can) in a column in chronological order, marking the centuries down the sides of the column. Select any one event belonging to or closely connected with Scottish History, and write a paragraph on it, noting particularly the subsequent effects of the event which you select: The Plantation of Ulster, the Battle of Carham, the First Reform Bill, the Great Exhibition, the Battle of the Standard, Wat Tyler’s Revolt, the Seven Years’ War, the Algeciras Conference, the Establishment of Protestantism in Scotland, the reign of Alexander III. of Scotland, the Invention of Printing, the Spanish Armada, the Persecution of the Covenanters, the voyages of Vasco da Gama, the Act of Security.
9. Describe the life of the different orders of society (nobles, clergy, commons) in England or Scotland under the Feudal System.
10. Describe life in a Scottish burgh under the Stuart Kings.
11. Discuss Oliver Cromwell’s home and foreign policy with special reference to his treatment of Scotland and Ireland.
12. Contrast the extent of the British Empire and the internal state of Britain at the beginning and at the end of George III.’s reign. What causes brought these changes about?
13. Explain fully, with illustrative drawings, any two of the following terms: Contour line, isotherm, determination of position on a map, eclipse of the sun, effects of the inclination of the earth’s axis, meridian of Greenwich.
14. To what countries is Britain chiefly indebted for its food supply? Give in each case the nature of the supply and the chief centres of export.
15. Contrast Canada and Australia as fields for emigration.
16. Give an account of any great explorer, and tell what you know of his principal discoveries.
