HIGHER GRADE
(1915)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1a. Explain carefully the meaning of any six of the following terms: Amnesty, Arbitration, Armistice, Conscription, Contraband of War, Devolution, Ecumenical Council, Federal Republic, Hague Tribunal, Parliamentary Opposition, Representative Government, Trial by Jury.
1b. What is meant by “Local Government”? Illustrate your answer by reference to the duties and powers of County Councils, Town Councils, Parish Councils.
2. Discuss the part played in English and Scottish religious history by (a) St. Columba, (b) St. Augustine, and (c) John Wycliffe.
3. What reasons are there for regarding (a) Alfred, (b) William I., and (c) Edward III. as great English kings?
4. Discuss the view that the Franco-Scottish alliance was a benefit to France but a curse to Scotland.
5. What were the grounds, and what the main consequences, of the hostility of England to Spain in the time of the Tudors?
6. “Strafford, Montrose, Clarendon, renegades from the cause of liberty, became alike the apostles of tyranny.” Criticise this verdict.
7. Trace the course of events which led to the revolt of the American Colonies. What causes mainly contributed to the ultimate success of the colonists?
8. What social and economic changes made Parliamentary Reform necessary in England and Scotland in the beginning of the 19th century, and how was it brought about?
9. Explain the value of an Atlas to the student of history, and illustrate your answer from the Napoleonic wars.
10. Give a brief account of any two of the following: The relations between Greece and Persia in the 5th century B.C.; the importance of Sparta at the close of the Peloponnesian War; the rise of Macedonia; Greek colonization.
11. Of what value to a student of ancient history is a knowledge of the writings of either Homer or Horace?
12. Give a brief account of any two of the following: The growth of Roman power before the second Punic War; Caesar’s conquest of Gaul; the career of Cicero; Roman power in Judea up to the siege of Jerusalem; Roman education.
13. Illustrate, either from the Italian peninsula or from the British Isles, the influence of geography upon history.
14. Criticise one of the following statements: (a) From the reign of Henry II. to the reign of Henry VIII. the English were always unprovoked aggressors in France. (b) The greatest misfortune of medieval Europe was the intervention of the Emperors in the affairs of Italy. (c) The spirit of nationality was destroyed by the Reformation and did not revive until the time of Napoleon.
15. Illustrate the importance of the Papacy in the time of Gregory VII. or of Innocent III.
16. Give a short account of any two of the following: The Conciliar movement; the decline of Venice; the rivalry of Francis I. and Charles V.; the policy of Richelieu; the career of Charles XII. of Sweden.
17. Trace the growth of British dominion in India in the 19th century.
18. What were the real causes of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71? What was the actual occasion of the outbreak? Tell briefly the chief events of the campaign.
19. Trace the relations between Great Britain and Turkey during the reign of Queen Victoria.
