Lower Grade
1925
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of part of the British Isles: Show, by firm dotted lines, the main water-parting in (1) the Southern Uplands of Scotland and (2) the Pennine Region of Northern England. Mark the Arrochar-Tarbet Gap with the letter A, the Biggar (Tweed-Clyde) Gap with B, the Tyne Gap with C, the Aire Gap with D, and the Beattock and Shap (railway) Summits with E and F respectively. Shade and name the Fens, the Sidlaw Hills and the Ayrshire coalfield, and name the Rivers Boyne and Nith. Show by a dotted line the shortest steamship route between Scotland and Ireland, naming the terminal ports.
2. On the accompanying map of Africa: Name the Zambesi, Niger, Blue Nile and Orange Rivers, and mark and name the towns Cairo, Mombasa, Durban, Khartum and Port Sudan. Write the words palm-oil, cotton, gold, cacao, wool, respectively on one area producing each, and write the name of the area intended close to the product. Print the letters A, B, and C respectively—A on an area receiving practically no rain, B on one receiving most of its rain in its warmer season, C on one with most rain in its colder season, and write the name of one characteristic product beside each of the letters.
3. With the help of the map used in Question 1 describe the district embracing the counties of Fife and Kinross, with special reference to the distribution of population, the products, and the occupations of the people. Show how the area is suited for the occupations carried on.
4. Name one important fishing-port in Scotland and one in England, state as precisely as you can the position of each, and explain how it is that the ports named are able to carry on this industry on a large scale. Add a note on the chief fish caught at each of the ports selected.
5. Point out the main contrasts between Scotland north of a line between the Forth and the Clyde, and England south of one from the Thames to the Severn, as regards climate, products and occupations of the people. Offer explanations of the contrasts you mention.
6. State the exact position of Belfast, Cork, Dublin and Limerick, and show how the trade and trade-relations of each town are influenced by its position.
