LOWER GRADE
(1909)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Name the century in which each of the following events happened, and add a brief note on any three of them: Battle of Carham; the Reformation by Parliament of the Scottish Church; the Darien Scheme; the Porteous Riots; the defeat of the Armada; the Persecution of the Covenanters; Declaration of Independence; Repeal of the Corn Laws; Death of Joan of Arc; the Franco-Prussian War.
2. What different peoples occupied Scotland between the coming of Columba and the death of Alexander III? Indicate some of the events by which they were welded into the nation which resisted Edward.
3. Tell the story of the struggle for Scottish Independence from the death of Alexander III to the Treaty of Northampton, and name some of the poems in which the achievements of the heroes have been celebrated.
4. What do you know of any one of the following events in Scottish History: the policy and death of James I; the conflict between the House of Stewart and the House of Douglas in the reign of James II; the circumstances that led to, and the incidents of, the battle of Flodden.
5. Trace the events which led to the conversion of Scotland to Protestantism and show how they were affected by the relations of Scotland to England and to France.
6. Describe the character and career of two of the following: Mary of Guise, John Knox, the Regent Morton, James VI, the Marquis of Montrose, Prince Charles Edward.
7. What do you know of the origin of the English Parliament and its power under the Plantagenets and under the Tudors?
8. What was the origin of the Hundred Years’ War? Sketch its course; name some of the principal battles; and show how it affected Scotland and the English Parliament.
9. Describe the character of Henry VIII, and show how the Reformation in England differed from the Reformation in Scotland.
10. State what you know of one of the following events, and of its importance for English History: the Conquest of Wales, the Colonisation of America, the Hampton Court Conference, the Solemn League and Covenant, the Seven Years’ War, the Revolt of the American Colonies.
11. Describe the character and career of two of the following: William the Conqueror, Cardinal Wolsey, Oliver Cromwell, the Duke of Marlborough, the elder Pitt, Nelson, Sir Robert Peel.
12. Charles V of Spain is generally spoken of as "The Emperor." What was he Emperor of and where did this title come from?
13. What do you know of the discovery and settling of America?
14. What were the Crusades? What part in them was taken by Scottish or English Kings? Did they have any effect on our life and customs?
15. Who were two of the following, and what importance have they for Scottish, English, or British History: King Haco; Gregory the Great; Joan of Arc; Martin Luther; John Calvin; Philip IV of Spain; Christopher Columbus; William the Silent; the Duke of Guise; Frederick the Great; Napoleon Buonaparte; Prince Bismarck; Abraham Lincoln?
16. What are "the Great Powers of Europe"? Give a very brief account of the history of any one of them since 1850, with special reference to its present relations with Britain.
