HIGHER GRADE
(1960)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Answer all three Questions. (a) How far is this true of any Shakespearean comedy you have read? (b) Show, with reference to one of Shakespeare’s tragic heroes, how far he is “betrayed by what is false within,” and how far he is the victim of circumstances. (c) Choose any one hero from a history or tragedy by Shakespeare and try to show, from your knowledge of the play, how he was regarded by his friends, and by his enemies. What picture do you thus obtain of the character, and how far is it complete? (d) Make a critical analysis of the imagery used by Shakespeare in any one soliloquy or speech which you know well. For what purpose is the imagery used, and how effective is it in fulfilling Shakespeare’s intention?
2. (a) Discuss this statement with reference to four of the pilgrims who seem to you to have had different reasons for setting out to Canterbury. (b) Illustrate the truth of this statement from one lay character and from one church character in the Prologue to The Canterbury Tales. (c) Choose any one of The Canterbury Tales with which you are familiar and show how Chaucer has used it as a means of displaying humour or pathos or exciting narrative or descriptive power.
3. (a) Who is your favourite heroine in a novel by Scott, or Jane Austen, or Dickens, or Thackeray, or the Brontes, or Thomas Hardy, or Joyce Cary? State why she appeals to you. (b) Write a character sketch of one of the following: Mr. Collins, Lord Evandale, Mr. Micawber, Magwitch, Archdeacon Grantly, Archie Weir, Dr. Aziz, Jess Oakroyd, Lewis Eliot, David Mountolive.
4. Write a critical appreciation of a sonnet by Shakespeare, or Milton, or Wordsworth, or Keats.
5. (a) Illustrate the truth of this statement with reference to one essayist with whose work you are closely acquainted. (b) Choose any essayist whose work you have studied carefully and, by close reference to at least two of his essays, discuss his choice of subjects, his manner of treating them, any notable characteristics of his style, and the reasons for which his writings appeal to readers.
6. (a) From your reading of one of the poems named below, what do you gather of the poet’s personality, tastes, and attitude to life? (b) What light is thrown by any one of the following poems on the social, political and economic conditions of its age?
7. With reference to any Scottish poem, or group of poems (e.g. ballads), or to any Scottish novel, discuss the truth of this statement.
8. With reference to one lyric by Burns and one by Wordsworth, compare the attitudes of the two poets towards nature.
9. Basing your answer on the work of any eminent living novelist, discuss the truth of this statement.
10. Choose a play or a non-fiction prose work which deals with a controversial topic. How far does the author present his material effectively, and in what ways would he be likely to influence his audience or his readers?
