HIGHER GRADE
1900
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects:—The arguments for and against the adoption of a system of compulsory military service in our country. A comparison of the benefits accruing to Britain from her colonies with those accruing to her colonies from Britain.
2. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning:—This dear English land! This happy England, loud with brooks and birds, Shining with harvests; cool with dewy trees And bloomed from hill to dell, but whose best flowers Are daughters, and Ophelia still more fair Than any rose she weaves; whose noblest floods The pulsing torrent of a nation’s heart; Whose forests stronger than her native oaks Are living men; and whose unfathomed lakes, For ever calm, the unforgotten dead In quiet graveyards willowed seemly round, O’er which To-day bends sad, and sees his face; Whose rocks are rights, consolidate of old Through unremembered years, around whose base The ever-surging peoples roll and roar Perpetual, as around her cliffs the seas That only wash them whiter!
3. Make a general analysis of the above passage. Parse the five words italicized in the above passage.
4. Discuss the use of figures of speech in the above passage. Point out an example of each figure of speech that you mention, and explain it, so as to show the purpose which it serves.
5. Trace back the history, in form and in meaning, of any five of the following English words, and explain carefully the connection of their present meanings with their root-signification:—nice, generous, prejudicial, education, insolent, impertinent, exquisite, censure, alarm, obsequious.
6. Point out the faults of composition or style in the following sentences. Explain why you consider them faults, and express what seems to you to be the meaning of each in an improved form:—We admit the gift’s generosity, but the town council in accepting it will, we believe, be found to have saddled themselves with a white elephant. Simplicity is one of the features of Macbeth’s nature, who has no command over his mind or his features. She is one of those women who cannot conceal her opinions about what she considers to be wrong. The sparring with words between Beatrice, who says “nobody marks you,” and yet she herself does, and Benedick makes us wonder how all that will end. The entrance of the two women, Nerissa first, then Portia, forms one of the most striking climaxes anywhere to be imagined, and adds to the dramatic effect.
7. Describe shortly the character of one of Chaucer’s Canterbury Pilgrims, and one of Shakespeare’s heroes, and one of Scott’s humorous creations.
8. Name one important work in verse, and one in prose, written or published within each of the following periods:—(1350)-(1400), (1580)-(1610), (1660)-(1688), (1775)-(1800), (1800)-(1825). Describe the metre of each poem you mention, and give a short account of any one of the prose works you have read.
9. Explain, and illustrate by reference to particular examples, what is meant by each of the following terms as applied to style:—Euphuistic, euphemistic, ironical, bombastic, epigrammatic.
