LOWER GRADE
(1923)
ENGLISH
PAPER 1
1. Write a Composition of about two pages on any one of the following subjects: Amateur photography. Mr. Pickwick learns to ride a bicycle. Lost on the hills. The story of Joan of Arc, or of Flora Macdonald, or of Florence Nightingale.
2. Read the following passage carefully, and then answer the questions that follow it: Make a plan of the ground described in this passage, using about half a page of your book for this purpose, and mark on it the palisade round the lists; the two entrances; the “platform” for the knights challengers and the passage leading to it; the “enclosed space” for the knights who meant to fight the challengers and the passage leading to it; the galleries; the space reserved for yeomanry; and the banks of turf for the “promiscuous multitude.”
3. Give the exact meaning of these words as used in the above passage: gradually, palisades, accessible, platform, pavilions, challengers, temporary, yeomanry, degree, vulgar, promiscuous, multitude.
4. Give the meaning of the following expressions: to make bricks without straw; the last straw; to clutch at a straw; to build on the sand; to plough the sands; the sands of time. From what story or proverb did any three of these expressions arise?
5. The mother of one of your friends has invited you to a party. Write a polite note, declining the invitation, and giving a reasonable excuse.
6. Enumerate as many of Shakespeare’s English historical plays as you can, and describe the part played by the King of England in any one of them.
7. Name four Scottish, English or British sovereigns that appear in any of Scott’s novels or poems, and describe the part played by any one of them.
8. Name four English or Scottish poets who have written poems about beasts or birds. Name one such poem by each author, and give a fuller account of any one of the poems named.
9. Take any fairy-tale that you know, and show how you would set about making a school play out of it, explaining into what scenes you would divide it.
10. In what plays or stories do the following characters appear? Name the author of the play or story in each case, and give a fuller account of one of the characters: Hopeful, Bob Acres, Jeanie Deans, Steerforth, Mowgli.
