LOWER GRADE
1901
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage read for dictation.
2. Write an essay, of about two pages, on one of the following subjects: A comparison of the Navy and the Army as careers. A character sketch of an acquaintance.
3. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning: Youth repairs His wasted spirits quickly, by long toil Incurring short fatigue ; and though our years, As life declines, speed rapidly away, And not a year but pilfers as he goes Some youthful grace that age would gladly keep, The elastic spring of an unwearied foot, That mounts the style with ease, or leaps the fence, That play of lungs, inhaling and again Respiring freely the fresh air, that makes Swift pace or steep ascent no toil to me, Mine have not pilfered yet; nor yet impaired My relish of fair prospect: scenes that soothed Or charmed me young, no longer young, I find Still soothing and of power to charm me still.
4. Parse the six words italicised in the above passage. Name and describe the metre in which the above passage is written, and mention any two English poems written in this metre.
5. Make a general analysis of the lines in Question 3 from "and though our years" to "Mine have not pilfered yet." Distinguish between the meanings of gratitude and gratuity, compliment and complement; and illustrate the meaning of each word by a sentence in which it is used.
6. Give the derivation of five of the following words, and show how each has acquired its present meaning: candid, extravagant, recreation, influence, lunatic, cynical, tantalise, rival, corroborate, vulgar.
7. Point out the faults in the following sentences. Explain why you consider them faults, and re-write each sentence in an improved form: The wise man is happy when he gains his own approbation, the fool other people’s. You are in the morning of life, and that is the season of enjoyment. Having examined the spot of the tragedy, the body was removed. Her hand has been so severely injured, that unless she has her forefinger amputated she will entirely lose the use of it. Socrates, who had been at one time a diligent scientific observer, then turned his back upon Nature in order to concentrate it upon Man.
8. Name, with mention of their authors, any five poems that refer to famous persons or events in British history. Give a short description, if you can with quotations, of two of the poems you mention.
