LOWER GRADE
1888
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following lines into correct and grammatical prose: “Ye friends to truth, ye statesmen who survey The rich man’s joys increase, the poor’s decay, ’Tis yours to judge how wide the limits stand Between a splendid and a happy land. Proud swells the tide with loads of freighted ore, And shouting folly hails them from her shore; Hoards, even beyond the miser’s wish, abound, And rich men flock from all the world around. Yet count our gains. This wealth is but a name, That leaves our useful product still the same.”
3. Give some rules for grammatical analysis and analyse the following: “The general reproach with which ignorance revenges the superciliousness of learning is that of pedantry; a censure which every man incurs who has at any time the misfortune to talk to those who cannot understand him, and by which the modest and timorous are sometimes frighted from the display of their acquisitions and the exertion of their powers.”
4. Explain the terms Voice, Mood and Tense and distinguish between weak and strong conjugations.
5. State the various formations of the plural in English and explain the origin of each.
6. State the meaning and derivation of the suffixes in the following words: Business, Only, Orchard, Nostril, Kingdom, Worship, Every.
7. Give the derivations of the following words: Rather, Judge, School, Moralist, Victuals, Monk, Heresy, Fiction, Poet, History, Philosophy, Government, Secure, Burgh, Town, Sheriff, Mayor.
8. Point out any grammatical faults in the following sentences: (a.) The savage as well as the civilized man, recognise a divine government of the world. (b.) In the one, no less than in the other, these sort of qualities are apparent. (c.) He acted in this case like he acted in similar cases previously. (d.) I prefer to suffer every extremity of evil, than to yield to an order which I believe to be wrong. (e.) The settlement of all these complicated questions, and of difficulties so threatening, demand energy as well as wisdom.
9. Give the plot with a description of the characters of any one of Shakespeare’s plays.
10. Give the plan of Chaucer’s Prologue and a description of the characters introduced.
11. Give the scheme and occasion of Milton’s Lycidas.
12. Give a summary of the action in the earlier books of Milton’s Paradise Lost.
13. Name the principal authors in the reign of Elizabeth.
14. Name the principal authors in the reign of Charles II.
15. Name the principal authors in the reign of Anne.
16. Name the principal authors in the reign of George III.
17. Name the principal authors in the reign of Victoria.
