LOWER GRADE
1891
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following lines: Where once we dwelt, our name is heard no more; Children not thine have trod my nursery floor; And where the gardener Robin, day by day, Drew me to school along the public way, Delighted with my bauble coach, and wrapped In scarlet mantle warm, and velvet-capped, ’Tis now become a history little known, That once we called the pastoral house our own. Short-lived possession! but the record fair, That memory keeps, of all thy kindness there, Still outlives many a storm that has effaced A thousand other themes less deeply traced.
3. Analyse lines 3-8 of the above quotation, from “and where” to “our own.”
4. Show, from the passage quoted in question 2, that the vocabulary of English is drawn from more than one source. What words besides child form their plurals in -en?
5. Which of the verbs used in the passage quoted in question 2 are strong verbs? State clearly the distinction between strong verbs and weak verbs. Explain and illustrate the statement that in modern English strong verbs tend to become weak.
6. Explain, with an example of each, the meaning of the following terms: Phrase, clause, mood, preposition, conjunction, gerundial infinitive.
7. Explain and illustrate the force of the substantival suffixes -th, -ock, -ee, -ice, and of the adverbial suffixes -ly and -wise. Which of them are Teutonic, and which Romance? Give the derivations of Minster, Poor, Woman, Asleep.
8. What do you know of any two of the following writers and their works: Chaucer, Dunbar, Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden, Pope, Johnson, Wordsworth, Tennyson?
9. Describe fully any famous English work written before the reign of Queen Victoria (a short poem must not be taken).
10. Point out, and correct, any faults in the following sentences: (a) He is as industrious, if not more industrious, than me. (b) There is a great difference between the obscurity that comes from depth and confusion, but neither of them are to be approved. (c) This is one of the worst sentences that ever was written. (d) I would like to have come if I had been able.
