HIGHER GRADE
1899
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects: A comparison of Scotland with other countries, as a place of residence and a sphere of livelihood. The distinction between a liberal, and a professional or technical education.
2. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning: Hackneyed in business, wearied at the oar, Which thousands, once fast chained to, quit no more, But which, when life at ebb runs weak and low, All wish, or seem to wish, they could forego ; The statesman, lawyer, merchant, man of trade, Pants for the refuge of some rural shade, Where, all his long anxieties forgot Among the charms of a sequestered spot, Or recollected only to gild o’er And add a smile to what was sweet before, He may possess the joys he thinks he sees, Lay his old age upon the lap of Ease, Improve the remnant of his wasted span, And, having lived a trifler, die a man.
3. Explain accurately the meaning and purpose of grammatical analysis. Make a general analysis of the passage in Question 2.
4. Parse the words italicized in the above passage. What words in the above passage are derived from French, and what words directly from Latin?
5. Point out the difference between oblique and direct speech, and turn the following sentence into direct speech: “As I was leaving, he asked me what I was going to say to the man, should he address me in the way he had addressed him.” State what is meant by idiom ; and point out the apparent logical or grammatical irregularity of the following: “He is a friend of William’s.” “I am but a man.”
6. Distinguish between the meanings of incredulous and incredible, affection and affectation, discovery and invention, counsel and council, deprecate and depreciate ; and illustrate the meaning of each word by a sentence in which it is used.
7. Correct the following sentences, and give reasons for any alterations you make: The magistrate in reply said that he would endeavour to administer justice without leaning either to partiality on the one hand or to impartiality on the other. Put one of the pills in a little water, and swallow it three times daily before meals. Any one of us may make a mistake, which we are sorry for, and has bitter consequences. In such a mission he is as likely to fail as his predecessors have done. He unravelled all the obscurities of this difficult subject, and with his penetrating illustrations threw light on its perplexing complications.
8. Give an account of the life and works of an English poet, and an English prose writer, who were contemporaries ; and give the names of any other authors of their time.
9. Narrate, as vividly as you can, one scene from any famous drama or novel.
10. Write a connected account of the character and career of any two of the following: Alfred, Harold, Richard I, Simon de Montfort, Richard II, Henry V, Cranmer, Hampden, William III, Chatham, Wellington, Peel.
11. State clearly the meaning of any two of the following, and give any facts you know connected with them, so as to show their importance in British history: Witenagemote, Danelagh, Feudalism, Trade-guilds, Benevolences and Forced Loans, Habeas Corpus Act, Religious Tests, Free Trade, Franchise, Royal Prerogative, Constitutional Monarchy.
12. Explain the circumstances that brought about any one of the following wars, briefly trace its history, and give some account of its results: The Hundred Years’ War with France, the Wars of the Roses, the Civil War of the Seventeenth Century, the War of the Spanish Succession, the War of American Independence, the Napoleonic War, the Crimean War.
13. Draw a map of any one county in the British Isles, marking carefully the position of its hills, rivers, and towns, and indicating what lies outside its borders. Give also an account of its vegetation, minerals, and industries.
14. Describe the principal coal-fields in the British Isles, and state what industries are carried on in each.
15. Write a short account of Australia, or of China, under the heads of rivers, climate, vegetation, minerals, means of communication.
16. Mention the first three commercial ports of France, of Germany, and of Russia respectively. Give their position, and state what they export.
17. Take five of the following places, and state fully to what causes they owe their commercial importance: Chicago, Cardiff, Winnipeg, Bombay, Montreal, San Francisco, Glasgow, New Orleans, Buenos Ayres.
18. Indicate the position of the following, and state any facts you know about them: The Philippine Islands, Sedan, Klondike, Crete, Cuba.
