Lower Grade
(1922)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of the world: a. Print the following names in their proper places: Armenia, Cape of Good Hope, Madeira, Philippine Islands, Patagonia. Draw the main stream of the rivers Congo, Danube and Mississippi, and name them. b. The latitudes and longitudes of four towns are as follows: (1) 47 N., 71 W.; (2) 27½ S., 153 E.; (3) 12 S., 77 W.; (4) 52½ N., 13½ E. Mark the position of each town with a small cross, and print the name close to the cross. c. Shade two areas of very heavy rainfall. Indicate the two trade-wind zones of the Atlantic by arrows showing the directions of the winds. Mark by an arrow the course and direction of the Gulf Stream, and add the name.
2. On the accompanying map of a portion of the British Isles: a. Print the following names in their proper places: R. Bann, R. Tees, Tyne Gap, Aire Gap, Antrim Mts., Lammermoors, Yorkshire Wolds, Windermere, Dumfries, Moville, Barrow-in-Furness, Hull. b. Draw a line to show the boundary between Scotland and England. c. Draw the shortest steamer route in regular use from Ireland to Scotland, and from Ireland to Wales; name the ports at the ends of each of the two routes drawn. Draw the railway line from Carlisle to Leeds, with special reference to the river valleys; insert the names of the two towns mentioned.
3. Describe the courses of the Rivers Tay and Shannon, and contrast the regions through which they flow in regard to their physical features and the occupations of the people. Name a town at the mouth of each river.
4. Select three of the following towns, state exactly where they are situated, mention the chief industry of each and point out the geographical factors which have favoured that industry: Alloa, Bradford, Cardiff, Dundee, Londonderry, St. Helens.
5. Name one Scottish county noted for cattle-feeding, one noted for dairy-farming, and one noted for wheat-growing. Describe each type of farming, and show in each case how it is determined by advantages of climate, soil, or access to markets, in the county named.
6. Give a short account of the British sea-fishing industry. (Your answer should include reference to fishing grounds, methods of fishing, and markets.)
