LOWER GRADE
(1916)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Place the following events in the century appropriate to each on the accompanying table: The battle of Harlaw; the battle of Crecy; the Scottish Reformation; the First Crusade; the battle of the Standard; the discovery of America; the career of Thomas Chalmers; the battle of Brunanburh; the Indian Mutiny; the Thirty Years’ War; Magna Charta; the Synod of Whitby; the career of John Wycliffe; the career of Frederick the Great; the Great Fire of London; the battle of Sheriffmuir.
2. Explain briefly the connection between the Spanish Armada and the Revolt of the Netherlands; between the Revolution of 1688 and the War of the Spanish Succession; between the Industrial Revolution and the First Reform Bill.
3. Why are St. Columba and Margaret, wife of Malcolm Canmore, famous in Scottish history?
4. Name two battles fought near Stirling, and two battles fought near Edinburgh. State briefly why these battles were fought and what results followed from them.
5. Contrast the characters and careers of James I. of Scotland and James III. of Scotland, and give some account of the rebellions against them.
6. Why are the reigns of Alexander III. and James IV. regarded as the most prosperous in Scottish history?
7. Name six Scottish monasteries. What part was played by the monks in the life of the Middle Ages?
8. Trace the part played by the Argyll family in Scottish history from 1638 to 1715.
9. Name two famous historical characters depicted by Scott in each of the following works: Marmion, The Fair Maid of Perth, The Fortunes of Nigel. Give a brief account of any scene in any one of these works in which one of the Royal Stuarts plays a part.
10. Give some account of any two of the following: Joshua, Darius, Pericles, Hannibal, Cicero, the Emperor Tiberius, Alfred the Great, Saladin, Warwick the King Maker, Drake, Gustavus Adolphus, Lord Nelson, Garibaldi, Lord Roberts.
11. On what occasions were any four of the following expressions used; or to what persons or events do they refer?: I have spoiled my good battle-axe. I am your King, I will be your leader. The key shall keep the castle and the bracken-bush the cow. Presbytery agreeth as well with a King as God with the Devil. Thorough. I have no wish to go again on my travels. George, be a King. We are conquering Canada on the plains of Germany.
12. In what circumstances did Canute and William I. come to occupy the throne of England?
13. Write a short account of Simon de Montfort and the Black Prince.
14. When and how did the English lose possession of Normandy and Calais?
15. In what circumstances did the following Kings of England lose their thrones: Richard II., Richard III., James II.?
16. Trace the career of Oliver Cromwell from the battle of Naseby to his death.
17. In what ways did Lord Clive, Warren Hastings, and Lord Dalhousie extend the British dominion in India?
18. What did Napoleon mean by describing Great Britain as the most dangerous of his enemies?
19. Illustrate the importance of railways in trade and in war.
20. Give some account of any two of the following: Florence Nightingale, Lord Shaftesbury, Lord Lister, Lord Kelvin, Sir Edwin Landseer, Michael Faraday, Charles Darwin.
