LOWER GRADE
1955
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Read through the passage printed above and then answer the following questions on it: (a) Express in your own words the meaning of each of the following phrases as they are used in the passage: with profound respect; restored the Scottish monarchy; thoughts wisely and boldly for his country's deliverance. (b) Suggest single words which might have been used in place of the following phrases: remained alive; falling down; broken to pieces; a little while ago; winding sheet. Give an alternative phrase for one after another. (c) Form adjectives from fragment, sepulchre, monument, respect; a noun from inter; and a verb from tomb. (d) Give a general analysis of the sentence: "So orders were sent... profound respect." (e) Why was the exact place of burial forgotten? (f) What led to the discovery, and why was the identity of the skeleton certain? (g) What were the memories which made the spectators weep? Point out in the passage two other signs of Scottish admiration for Bruce. (h) Tell briefly, in the first person, the story of the discovery, as it might have been recounted by one of the workmen. (i) Suggest a title for the passage.
2. Write a short letter acknowledging the receipt of a catalogue which you have asked a large general store to send to you, and expressing your appreciation of the contents.
3. Write an account of one of the following: (a) Shylock’s plan for revenge; (b) Rosalind's adventures in Arden; (c) the plot against Malvolio; (d) the conspiracy against Julius Caesar; (e) the fencing-match in “Hamlet”; (f) the murder of Duncan; (g) the triumph of Prospero.
4. Choose one poem which describes a journey (by land or sea), or a desperate fight, or a shipwreck, or a beautiful scene. Give the author’s name, outline the content of the poem, and bring out any points in it which have interested you.
5. Taking any novel which you have enjoyed reading, show how the author gives his story a happy ending, or a sad ending, as the case may be.
6. Describe in your own words an incident full of excitement or danger from a prose book (novel, biography, or book of adventure) which you have read.
7. Select two passages, one showing (a) the more humorous side, and one showing (b) the more serious side of one of the following writers: Chaucer; Addison; Goldsmith; Burns; Lamb. Write a very brief account of the content of the passages and say why you think your choice is a good one.
