LOWER GRADE
1913
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following subjects: (a) The life of a stream, described by itself, from its source to where it joins a river. (b) If you had lived in the days of the Civil War, would you have been a Cavalier or a Round-head? Or, If you had lived in the days of the ’45, would you have been for Prince Charlie or against him? (c) Character of a School Friend.
2. Tell the story of the following poem in your own words. Use simple language, but try to bring out all the details. Do not be content with a mere summary: On the Death of a favourite Cat, drowned in a Tub of Gold-fishes.
3. (a) Scan the first stanza of the above poem, marking the feet and accents and naming the metre. (b) Explain the exact meaning of the following words, as used in the above poem, and give in each case another word from the same root: pensive, hapless, averse, presumptuous, malignant.
4. (a) Parse the words italicised in the following sentences: "By this time the men in the firing line were so exhausted that they were falling asleep as they lay. So the force withdrew after firing a random volley." (b) Explain the meaning and (if you can) the origin of the following phrases: "a Job’s comforter," "to kill the fatted calf," "a worshipper of Mammon," "to cultivate the Muses," "Vanity Fair." (c) Write a very short advertisement for a furnished house at the seaside, specifying the accommodation desired. Write (in the third person) an answer to such an advertisement, giving particulars as to situation, advantages, and terms.
5a. The poem in Question 2 was written by Thomas Gray. Tell what you know about his life, and his other poems. Illustrate your answer by quotations.
5b. Name five poems (other than that given in Question 2) which deal with animals (including birds). Give authors’ names and periods. Write a full account of any one of the poems that you mention.
5c. Name all the female characters in any play that you have read. Add a descriptive sentence about each, and give a fuller description of the one you like best, showing what part she takes in the action of the play.
5d. Name the author of each of the following works, with the century in which it was written; and tell in a single sentence what each work is about. Then select one of the works and give as full an account of it as you can: The Pilgrim’s Progress, Part II.; The Vision of Mirza; The Traveller; The Essays of Elia; The Lay of the Last Minstrel; Rob Roy; A Christmas Carol; Tom Brown’s Schooldays; Westward Ho!; The Master of Ballantrae.
