LOWER GRADE
(1910)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Name the century in which each of the following events happened, and add a brief note on any three of them, connecting each with the general history of its century, or with some important series of events in that century: The Treaty of Northampton; the Conquest of Mexico by the Spaniards; the Crimean War; Marlborough’s Campaigns; the Third Crusade; the First Reform Bill; the Execution of Mary Queen of Scots; the Battle of Stirling Bridge; the Solemn League and Covenant; the Discovery of the Sea Route to India.
2. Enumerate the chief events of Scottish History in any one of the following reigns, and describe very briefly the state of Scotland at the time: Reign of Alexander III.; Reign of James IV.; Reign of Charles II.
3. Discuss the relations of Scotland with Norway and Denmark before 1603. What traces of Norse occupation or Norse influence still remain in Scotland?
4. How and when did the Franco-Scottish alliance begin? What causes brought it to an end?
5. Explain any three of the following expressions, with approximate dates: Ragman’s Roll; Lords of the Congregation; First Book of Discipline; the Killing Time; the Disruption.
6. Give a short account of any two of the following: John Balliol; William Dunbar; George Wishart; William Paterson; James Watt; Thomas Carlyle.
7. How was the liberty of the subject secured by Magna Charta, Habeas Corpus, the Bill of Rights? Was the power of the Scottish kings limited in any such way?
8. How did the Wars of the Roses affect the position of the King, the Barons, and the Commons?
9. Give a short account of any great statesman, sailor, or writer in Elizabeth’s reign.
10. Describe the part played by the Presbyterians in the Civil War.
11. Tell what you know of any one of the following events, and show its historical importance: The Plantation of Ulster, the Revolution Settlement, the Conquest of Canada, the Peninsular War, the Repeal of the Corn Laws, the Occupation of Egypt by the British.
12. What is meant by "the Holy Roman Empire"? Who founded it? And how did it come to an end?
13. What do you understand by "the Renaissance" and "the Reformation"? Where and when did each of these movements originate? Had they any connection with each other?
14. "The wealth of both Indies," says Bacon, "seems in great part but an accessory to the command of the Seas." How far does this explain the history of the 16th and 17th centuries?
15. Give a short account of any two of the following: Saladin; Luther; Henri IV.; Cardinal Richelieu; Peter the Great; Frederick the Great; George Washington; Napoleon III.
16. Compare the position of Britain in Europe to-day with her position immediately after Waterloo.
