Lower Grade
1948
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of part of the British Isles: (a) Show and name four of the main coalfields of Britain. (b) Delimit two areas where the population density is very high. (c) Mark Edinburgh and Leeds, and show the Waverley-Midland Route. (d) Mark a limestone ridge which crosses England. (e) Mark two passenger steamship routes between Ireland and Great Britain.
2. On the accompanying map of the lands surrounding the Indian Ocean: (a) Write DRY, WINTER, SUMMER, ALL, TWO over appropriate areas. (b) Write OIL over two major oilfields. (c) Mark and name four entrepots. (d) Name Tasmania, Sumatra, Madagascar, and Mozambique, stating the Empire of which each forms a part.
3. Examine the contour map on page 4 of the map sheet: (a) Write a broad general description of the build of the area shown. (b) Suggest reasons why a town has developed at S. (c) Comment on the position of the road SPQBU. (d) If the map measures 5½ inches by 7, what area of territory is shown?
4. Distinguish between transhumance and nomadism. Describe, with reference to a specific example in each case, how geographical conditions lead to the movements of the people.
5. What are the conditions necessary for the cultivation and harvesting of cotton or tea? Give a broad account of the world distribution of the crop selected.
6. Explain with the help of diagrams: (a) Why it is warmer at the Equator than at high latitudes. (b) Why the interval between sunrise and sunset varies with the seasons but not at the Equator.
7. Describe, with reference to a specific example in each case, the main characteristics of the build, drainage, and soil of a dissected plateau and an alluvial plain. Indicate how the physical characteristics influence human affairs.
8. Write a short essay showing how a serious deficiency in British coal production tends to bring about restrictions in our food supply, difficulties for our manufacturing industries, and a reduced standard of living.
9. Describe broadly the characteristics of the climate of your home area. Write notes showing how three of the following differ in climate from your home area: Cork, Dublin, Lowestoft, Braemar, Lerwick, Southampton.
10. Account for the distribution of people in one of the following areas: The Scottish Lowlands; England north of the Mersey-Humber; Wales; Ireland (Eire and Northern Ireland).
11. “Although geographically different, Norway and Denmark are much akin.” Expand and discuss this statement.
12. Write notes on the position and importance of three of the following: Basle; Coblenz; Essen; Hamburg; Istanbul; Madrid; Marseilles; Milan; Vienna.
13. Contrast the climate of two of the following areas, and mention the main agricultural products: The Plain of Lombardy; The Paris Basin; The Basin of the Vistula; S.W. Spain.
14. Suppose that you had recently spent a whole year on a farm in one of the following areas: The Lake Peninsula of Canada; Southern Manitoba; a valley of western Nova Scotia; the Australian Riverina; the eastern coastal plain of North Island, New Zealand; the south-western part of Cape Province, South Africa. Write a geographical essay describing your impressions.
15. Draw a sketch-map of N. America showing the main physical regions. Give a general description of the build of one of these regions and write a brief note on the rest.
16. “Africa remained for long the Dark Continent, so great were the obstacles which impeded exploration of the interior.” Mention the kinds of obstacles and illustrate by examples.
