HIGHER GRADE
(1936)
HISTORY
PAPER 1
1. Show very briefly the historical significance of the following: the coronation of Charlemagne (Charles the Great) in 800; the marriage of Henry II of England; the capture of Constantinople in 1453; the marriage of James IV; the defeat of the Spanish Armada; the death of Cromwell; the trial of the Seven Bishops; the invasion of Russia by Napoleon; the Franco-Prussian War of 1870; the Saar Plebiscite.
2. In what ways and by what missionaries was Christianity introduced into (a) Scotland and (b) England? Indicate the importance of the Synod of Whitby.
3. Choose one of the following and describe the course of the struggle, explaining briefly its causes and its results: (a) the struggle of Empire and Papacy begun under Gregory VII down to 1122. (b) the First Crusade. (c) the Scottish War of Independence down to 1314. (d) the War between France and England in the reign of Edward III.
4. Explain the variations in ecclesiastical policy in England under Henry VIII, Edward VI, Mary.
5. Account for (a) the prosperity of the reign of James IV before the battle of Flodden and (b) the failure of Mary Queen of Scots to retain her throne.
6. Discuss one of the following topics: (a) disputes between Crown and Parliament, 1603-1639. (b) the growth of British dominion in America up to the foundation of Georgia in 1733. (c) the chances of a Stuart Restoration between 1689 and 1746. (d) the rise of the Methodists.
7. Give some account of one of the following: (a) the reasons for the success of the Americans in the War of Independence. (b) the career of Pitt the Younger before the outbreak of the French War. (c) the importance of sea power in the Napoleonic Wars.
8. Describe the changes in agriculture and industry which took place in Scotland in the 18th and early 19th centuries.
9. Discuss the achievements of any two of the following: Lord Melbourne; Benjamin Disraeli (Earl of Beaconsfield); Lord Shaftesbury (of Factory Acts fame); Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde; Cavour; Charles Darwin; Lord Lister; President Wilson; Marshal Foch.
10. Either (a) How and when did Great Britain show, by her dealings with Colonies and Dominions, that she had learned the lesson of the American War of Independence? Or (b) Indicate the most important changes in the government of India made (i) after the Mutiny and (ii) by the Government of India Act, 1935.
11. Give some account of one of the following: (a) the relations between the United States of America and Europe since 1918. (b) the development of dictatorships in Europe since the Great War. (c) the course of events in Russia since the revolution of 1917.