HIGHER GRADE
(1939)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Show briefly the historical significance of five of the following: Battle of Carham; Marriage of Henry II of England; Death of the Maid of Norway; Siege of Orleans; Diet of Worms; National Covenant; Death of Charles II of Spain; Capture of Quebec; Treaty of Tilsit; Anglo-French Entente of 1904.
2. Describe briefly the settlement of the Anglo-Saxons in England and estimate their contribution to its political development. Explain the importance of Malcolm Canmore and his sons in the history of Scotland.
3. To what extent were the Emperors Frederick Barbarossa and Frederick II responsible for the decline of the Holy Roman Empire? Describe the organisation of a mediaeval English manor and explain the disappearance of villeinage. What causes tended to retard the development of stable government in either Scotland or England during the fifteenth century?
4. Describe the parts played respectively by Portugal, Spain, and England in the Age of Maritime Discovery before 1558. Explain the different courses taken by the Reformation in Scotland and in England.
5. Do you agree with the view that the Peace of Westphalia (1648) marks the beginning of a new era in Europe? Give your reasons. What were the causes of the Union of Scotland and England in 1707 and what were its principal results?
6. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: James IV of Scotland; Sir Thomas More; Copernicus; William the Silent; John Pym; Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon; John Maitland, Duke of Lauderdale; John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough; Peter the Great; Sir Robert Walpole.
7. Do you consider that William Pitt the Younger showed himself a greater statesman before or after the outbreak of war in 1793? Trace briefly the course of the Peninsular War and estimate its influence on the fortunes of Napoleon.
8. “Peace without plenty.” How far is this a true description of conditions in Britain during the period 1815–1830? In what ways did Disraeli serve the cause of social reform?
9. To what extent does the work of Bismarck entitle him to be considered the maker of modern Germany? Trace the course of the Irish Home Rule movement between 1870 and 1914.
10. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: George Washington; Warren Hastings; James Watt; William Cobbett; Michael Faraday; Richard Cobden; Count Cavour; Cecil Rhodes; Earl Kitchener of Khartoum; Dr. Nansen.
11. Show how Scotland has been affected by industrial changes in the twentieth century. Trace the main developments in the status of the British Dominions since 1914. What were the principal provisions of the Treaty of Versailles (1919), and to what extent have they ceased to operate?
