LOWER GRADE
(1920)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 3
1. On the accompanying map of the World: (a) Draw the following parallels, and print the appropriate name along each: Antarctic Circle, Tropic of Cancer, Arctic Circle, Tropic of Capricorn. Shade lightly two desert areas crossed by the Tropic of Capricorn and two desert areas crossed by the Tropic of Cancer, and print the name of each desert over the shaded portion. Trace also the course of the main stream of either the Amazon or the Congo. (b) Mark and name the town of New York and a town of similar latitude in Europe; mark and name the town of Glasgow and a town of similar latitude in Continental Europe; mark and name also the towns of Archangel and Brisbane. (c) Print in their proper places the following names: Eastern Ghats, British Columbia, Uganda, Straits Settlements. Print also the words “rubber,” “coffee,” “cocoa,” “jute” over districts where these are largely produced, one area for each commodity.
2. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: (a) Print in their proper places the following names: Channel Islands, Mull, Lough Foyle, Cairngorm Mountains, Cleveland. Mark and name the towns of Grimsby, Londonderry, Birmingham, Wick and Hawick. (b) Draw a straight line from the head of the Humber Estuary to that of the Bristol Channel, and another from the head of the Mersey Estuary to that of the Thames Estuary. Mark the point of intersection of the two lines with the letter A, and measure the distance of A from the four estuaries, writing the results (in miles) along the four lines. (c) Shade one area in Scotland noted for wheat-production, one noted for potato-growing, and one noted for dairy produce. Print the words “wheat,” “potatoes,” “dairy produce” over the shaded areas. Show by a dotted line the position of the water-parting in the N.W. Highlands of Scotland (i.e., in the part of the Highlands north of the Caledonian Canal), and print the word “steep” on the side of the dotted line where the ground seems to you to have the steeper slope.
3. Choose any two of the following important ports: Belfast, Dundee, Glasgow, Liverpool, Hull. State the parts of the world with which each of the two ports selected chiefly trades, and mention some of the articles which it exports and imports. Show how the situation in each case influences the nature of the trade carried on.
4. Ireland is larger than Scotland, but it has a smaller population, and this although much of Scotland is very scantily peopled. (a) What do you know of the distribution of the population in each country? (b) What geographical reasons can you give for the differences in the number and distribution of the inhabitants in the two countries?
5. With the help of the map used in Section B draw either (a) an enlarged sketch-map of the Fife peninsula and the Firths of Forth and Tay. Mark and name the towns of Edinburgh, Dundee, and Perth, and two other towns on the coast; the Forth and Tay Bridges; the Ochil Hills. Show the main line from Edinburgh to Dundee via the Forth and Tay Bridges. Or (b) an enlarged sketch-map of the Firth of Clyde, and of the estuary as far up as Glasgow. Show Arran, Bute, Loch Long, Loch Fyne, and Goat Fell; mark and name the towns of Glasgow, Greenock, and Dunoon. Show also the railway line from Glasgow to Ardrossan (via Paisley).
6. In a place in the Ganges valley the mean monthly temperature of May, the hottest month, is over 90° F.; of January, the coldest month, 60° F. The average rainfall in July, the rainiest month, is 12", while very little rain falls from November to May. Use these figures to compare the climate of Scotland as a whole, or of your own part of Scotland, with that of the Ganges valley.
7. Name one country in Continental Europe which, before the war, exported large amounts of food, and one which exported large amounts of manufactured goods, and point out some of the geographical differences between the two countries.
8. Give some account of the life of the inhabitants of one of the following areas, considered in relation to the geographical conditions: The Nile valley; or a tea-producing region in Ceylon; or a Saharan oasis; or the sheep-rearing belt in Australia.
9. Outline very briefly the main physical features of the United States of America, and name in order from north to south the chief cultivated plants grown along the line of the Mississippi. Suggest shortly reasons for the predominance of the plants you name in the successive agricultural belts.
10. Draw a sketch-map of a small island which is hilly to the centre and west, but comparatively flat in the east. Nearly half-way up the east coast there is a small bay, into which a stream flows, the bay being protected from the north wind by a well marked headland. On the shores of the bay is a village, from which a road leads round the south side of the island to a lighthouse at the south-western end. Your sketch-map, which should fill about half a page, should show all the features described above; the hills may be indicated either by contour lines or by shading.
11. Describe the difficulties which an explorer would experience either in the Polar regions or in an area of dense tropical forest. Explain generally the kind of equipment he would require for the region which you select.
