LOWER GRADE
1913
ENGLISH
PAPER: 3
1. On the accompanying map of the world: (a) Insert in their proper places the following names: Borneo, Lake Chad, Appalachian Mountains, River Neva, Bass Strait, Orange River, Florida, Tibet, Sardinia. (b) Show by a dot the position of the following towns, and write the name of each close to the dot: Adrianople, Bilbao, Canton, Colombo, Philadelphia, Valparaiso, Lagos, Hobart, Dunedin. (c) Either write the names of the following races over their native places: Kafir, Maori, Dyak, Ainu, Bushman, Lapp, Magyar, Papuan. Or draw, parallel to the equator, straight lines representing the Arctic Circle, the Tropic of Cancer, the Tropic of Capricorn, the Antarctic Circle.
2. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: (a) Insert the names of two (but not more than two) towns famous for each of the following industries, adding the name of the industry in brackets: cutlery, brewing, book-publishing, ship-building, boot-making. (b) Show by dark pencil-shading the parts of the British Isles that have a heavy rainfall (say over sixty inches per annum), and by light shading the parts that have a small rainfall (say under twenty-five inches). Leave the intermediate region blank. (c) Insert in their proper places the following names: Cromarty Firth, Ochil Hills, Stranraer, R. Humber, the Lizard, Cardigan Bay, Lough Foyle, Valentia.
3. Give an account of the fishing industry of the United Kingdom.
4. At noon on the 21st June how high is the sun above the horizon at (a) the equator, (b) the Tropic of Cancer, (c) the Tropic of Capricorn, (d) the North Pole? Give reasons or illustrate your answer by sketches.
5. Describe briefly the general character of the Balkan Peninsula, the races that inhabit it, and their chief occupations. Illustrate by a sketch map showing the countries, their capitals, and the main railway lines.
6. Describe a coasting voyage from Colombo to Hong Kong. At what seaports might a call be made? State the nature of the cargo likely to be brought on board at each port.
7. Compare the Central Plain of Ireland with the Central Lowlands of Scotland. Refer especially to physical features, industries, and distribution of the population.
8. Select any two of the following towns. Name their chief industries, and, if possible, show how the industries have been affected by the position of the towns: Swansea, Pittsburg, Dunfermline, Johannesburg, Belfast, Vienna.
