Lower Grade
1896
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects: (a) The character and career of Richard I or of Oliver Cromwell or of the Young Pretender. (b) A letter to a friend containing an invitation to spend a holiday with you.
3. Paraphrase the following lines so as to bring out their full meaning: ’Tis easy to resign a toilsome place But no Wo manage leisure with a grace. Absence of occupation is not rest; A mind quite vacant is a mind distress’d. The veteran steed excused his task at length In kind compassion of his failing strength And turn’d into the park or mead to graze Exempt from future service all his days. There feels a pleasure perfect in its kind Ranges at liberty and snuffs the wind. But when his lord would quit the busy road To taste a joy like that he has bestow’d He proves less happy than his favour’d brute A life of ease a difficult pursuit.
4. Point out the words of classical origin in the passage quoted in Question 3. Give the derivation of five of these words. Parse the words italicised in the above passage.
5. Make a general analysis of the following sentence: "He held it to be the duty of all true Christians to form congregations apart to which only those whose religion and morality were beyond question should be admitted." Parse each of the following italicised words: (a) I shall "O' if necessary. (b) Give me my walking-stick. (c) She did nothing but scream. (d) Tell no one else.
6. Explain and give an example of (a) nominative absolute (b) adverbial clause (c) direct and indirect speech. Give examples of the different sounds represented by ough and ei in English. What consonants in the English alphabet are phonetically unnecessary and why? Give the origin and meaning of the following abbreviations: i.e. e.g. viz. R.S.V.P.
7. Correct the errors in the following sentences and give reasons for your corrections: (a) We are all apt to imagine that what is always has and always will be. (b) I meant to have called on him when I first came. (c) He is not one of those who interfere in matters with which he has no concern. (d) Having had much experience in these departments the reader may rely on the truth of the following observations. (e) That she was a somnambulist I know as I have seen her under its influence.
8. Name and describe the metre in which the passage in Question 3 is written. With what other English metres are you acquainted? Describe them and quote an example of each.
9. Describe and quote from three songs and three ballads with which you are familiar. Name the authors if they are known.
