HIGHER GRADE
(1916)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following: The physical appearance and what seems to you the character and spirit of any famous city you have visited or read about. Compare these ideals of life—retirement and tranquillity, or adventure and fame. Take up the story at this point, and describe the meeting as dramatically as you can, so as to bring out the conflict of feelings in father and daughter.
2. Give shortly in your own words the thought of the above poem, making clear the significance of the allusions. Indicate the figurative expressions by which Wordsworth makes his thought vivid and moving.
3. Analyse the metrical form of the poem given in Question 2. Are you acquainted with any other varieties of this form? If so, describe them.
4. Parse the words italicised in the following quotations, adding in each case a note upon the idiom: And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon. Either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt. Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near. Whether of them twain did the will of his father? The powers that be are ordained of God. Give the meaning of the words italicised in the following, and indicate something of the history of each: The sanguine sunrise, with his meteor eyes, And his burning plumes outspread. So now, Livesey, come post; do not lose an hour if you respect me. My chief humour is for a tyrant. Nice customs courtesy to great kings. Tell me, what one character of liberty the Americans have.
5. How has Chaucer described the knight in The Prologue? Compare Chaucer’s knight with other descriptions of the knightly character either by Spenser or by Tennyson.
6. Discuss the thought and the form (construction, diction, metre) of one of the following: Prothalamion; Lycidas; The Bard; Ode on Intimations of Immortality; Ode on a Grecian Urn; The Scholar Gipsy.
7. A favourite theme of comedy is the exposure of the boaster, the correction of the affected, the defeat of the hypocrite. Illustrate any one of these motives from the works of Shakespeare, or Sheridan, or Dickens, or Jane Austen, or Thackeray, or other well-known author.
8. Is it true that women characters play a greater part in Shakespeare’s comedies than in his tragedies? If so, how is it to be accounted for?
9. What are the essentials of a good biography? Illustrate from any famous biography that you have read, naming the author and his period.
10. What has interested you in the thought and style of one of the following: Gulliver’s Travels; Macaulay’s Essay on Clive; De Quincey’s Opium Eater; Ruskin’s Unto this Last; Carlyle’s Heroes and Hero Worship; Stevenson’s Virginibus Puerisque?
