Higher Grade
1908
ENGLISH
1
1. Write an Essay, of about two pages, on one of the following subjects: (a) Describe the picturesque and historical features of the landscape visible from any well-known point of view in Scotland (e.g., from Stirling Castle, Edinburgh Castle, &c.). (b) A Haunted House. [The composition should take the form of a personal narrative; describe the scene of your (real or imaginary) adventure precisely.] (c) The ordinary routine of life on a large farm; or on board a ship; or in any great industry with which you are familiar.
2. Express the main thought of the following sonnet, shortly and in plain language; indicate what the expression of the thought seems to you to gain from the use of the figures and phrases italicized.
3. Analyse the last sentence of the above sonnet. Give the original meaning, and (if you can) the derivation of solemn, scenes, felicities, pensive, ruddy; and show the propriety of their use in the above sonnet.
4. Write short notes on the syntax of the words italicized in the following sentences.
5. Rewrite the following passage in Modern English, changing the spelling and the archaic expressions; and add short notes on the words italicized.
6. Describe any notable pictures of the Good Parson, the Doctor, or the Lawyer, which you have met with in English Literature. [Not more than two examples in all need be given.]
7. Discuss the appropriateness, and the poetical effect, of the following Personifications. To what period or poet would you be inclined to attribute each, and for what reasons?
8. Discuss the following statement, with illustrations from plays you have read: The heroines of Shakespeare’s comedies are all more practical and efficient than the heroes.
9. Sketch the history of the Essay in English Literature, referring specially to any two of the following names: Bacon, Addison, Goldsmith, Lamb, Hunt or Hazlitt, Macaulay or Carlyle, Arnold, Stevenson.
10. Give the titles of any five of Scott’s historical novels: indicate the period of history which each of them illustrates; mention any novels by other authors that illustrate the same periods; and, selecting one of these other authors, compare him with Scott as a historical novelist.
