Lower Grade
1959
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Read the passage printed above and then answer the following questions on it, using as far as possible your own words:
a. Express in your own words the meaning of each of the following phrases as they are used in the passage: chilling terms (line 4); civic obligation (line 6); rooted antipathy (line 17); centenary exhibits (line 31).
b. Give the meaning of each of the following words as they are used in the passage: accessible (line 3); availed (line 5); august (line 14); evoke (line 23); humanize (line 26); current (line 29).
c. Give the name and the relation of each of the following clauses: (i) where visitors are welcome (line 14); (ii) if the phrase does not sound too irreverent (lines 26-27); (iii) that there is a tendency to confuse means with ends (line 28).
d. What was formerly considered to be the main function of a museum?
e. Explain in your own words why until fairly recently museums were not popular places with the ordinary public.
f. What methods have been used to attract the public to museums?
g. What grounds does the author find for criticizing these methods?
h. Why should the following words, (i) “visitors are welcome” (line 14), and (ii) “a new look” (line 27), be printed within inverted commas?
2. a. Give the meaning of the prefix in each of the following words: submarine; expel; international; supernatural; biped.
b. By adding the appropriate prefix, give the word which is exactly opposite in meaning to each of the following: similar; noble; legible; rational; friendly.
c. Replace each of the following expressions by a single word equivalent in meaning: (i) an instrument for measuring the rise and fall in temperature; (ii) the science which studies plant life; (iii) a place where birds are kept; (iv) the statement of income and expenditure presented annually to Parliament; (v) an apparatus for hatching eggs.
3. Name a Shakespeare play in which one of the following types is depicted: a miser; a witty girl; a usurper; a ruthless woman; a drunken hanger-on; a villain; a retiring philosopher; a serving-woman; an idealistic politician; a simpleton. Give a description of the character who represents the type you have chosen.
4. a. Give a brief account of the action of any ballad or other narrative poem which you have read. Illustrate your answer by appropriate quotation.
b. What do you regard as the best poem you have read or heard recently? What features of the poem made a strong appeal to you? Illustrate your answer as fully as you can by appropriate quotation.
5. a. Which one of the following characters would you like to have with you in a position of danger and difficulty, and why? Salvation Yeo; Allan Quatermain; Alan Breck Stewart; Sherlock Holmes; Richard Hannay; Horatio Hornblower.
b. Describe briefly one of the following incidents from any prose work (fiction or non-fiction), which you have read and enjoyed: an escape; an episode of war by sea or land; a proposal of marriage; a family scene; a party or ball; a scientific process or discovery; a home-coming.
6. Describe some of the qualities which you would expect to find in a good essay or a good short story. Illustrate these qualities from one example which you have read.
7. Choose any good modern biography, or autobiography, or book of reminiscences. Name the author, indicate his theme, and account for the special interest which the book aroused in you.
