HIGHER GRADE
1955
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. (a) “The heroines of Shakespeare’s comedies are young women of considerable independence of character.” Discuss this statement with reference to any one of the comedies. Or: (b) “A great play should sustain the interest of the readers or spectators, win their sympathy, and leave them with something to think about.” Discuss this view with reference to any one of Shakespeare’s tragedies. Or: (c) Choose any one of the following topics; develop it as fully as you can: (i) Is Lady Macbeth entirely in Macbeth’s confidence? (ii) Do all the characters in Hamlet think that the hero of the play is mad? (iii) Who is the real hero of the play that bears the name of Julius Caesar? (iv) In what characters in the play is King Lear able to inspire devotion? (v) For what reasons does Caliban arouse our sympathy?
2. (a) Select one of the following pairs of pilgrims from Chaucer’s Prologue to the Canterbury Tales, and contrast the two characters: (i) The Prioress and the Wife of Bath; (ii) The Monk and the Poor Parson; (iii) The Friar and the Clerk of Oxenford. Or: (b) “Chaucer loves to embellish a tale with matter or comment not strictly relevant to the story as a story.” Discuss and illustrate this statement with reference to any one of the Canterbury Tales.
3. “In L’Allegro and Il Penseroso the ear predominates over the eye.” Do you agree that in these poems Milton has assigned more importance to sounds than to sights? Illustrate your answer by quotation.
4. Choose any one of the following works, assign a date to the author, and explain why the work selected holds a prominent place in the prose literature of our country: Bunyan’s The Pilgrim’s Progress; Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels; Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe; Boswell’s Life of Dr. Johnson; Fronde’s English Seamen in the Sixteenth Century; Newman’s Apologia pro vita sua; Arnold’s Essays in Criticism.
5. Give the name of an essay (and of the author) dealing with one of the following subjects and then write a fairly full account of the essay you choose: gardens, schooldays, country life, life in London, travel, an historical character, rooks, memories.
6. (a) What features of the story, description, and language have you found to be particularly moving in any one of the following poems: Lycidas, Elegy written in a Country Churchyard, The Deserted Village, Michael, Marmion, Morte d’Arthur, Ulysses, Sohrab and Rustum? Or: (b) Discuss the poet’s treatment of the main character in any one of the following poems: Alexander’s Feast, The Rape of the Lock, The Bard, Tam o’ Shanter, The Ancient Mariner, Isabella, The Pied Piper of Hamelin, The Bishop orders his Tomb at St. Praxed’s Church.
7. Many novelists make use of their knowledge of a particular geographical region or of a particular class in society. Name any novelist who seems to you to do this and describe the picture he (or she) gives us of the particular region or class.
8. From your knowledge of the poetry of Burns or Wordsworth or Shelley discuss the poet’s attitude to birds or flowers.
9. Select one of the following characters, give the name of the book in which he or she appears and of the author of the book, and then trace briefly the part played in the story by the character you choose: Dinah Morris, Edie Ochiltree, Alan Breck, Wilkins Micawber, Emma Woodhouse, Beatrix Esmond, Henry Gow, Soames Forsyte, Meg Merrilies, Mark Tapley, Angel Clare.
10. Choose any book (other than a novel) dealing with Scottish history, Scottish life, Scottish character, or Scottish scenery; give a short account of it, mentioning particularly the features in the book that have most strongly appealed to you.
