HIGHER GRADE
(1893)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write an essay, about two pages long, on one of the following subjects: (a) Our rights and duties in regard to animals. (b) The qualities required for successful public speaking. (c) Æsop’s Fables.
2. Paraphrase the following lines so as to exhibit their full meaning: Take but degree away, untune that string...
3. Analyse the sentence: “Granted that we could safely keep silence, it would be nothing less than disgraceful to desert a man who is sustained only by the hope that we shall aid him.”
4. Of what kind do you consider each of the following italicised clauses to be? Give reasons for your answer. Parse the italicised words in the following: (a) They do nothing but talk. (b) I do not like being taken to the dentist’s. (c) We are to stop here. (d) I would if I could. (e) Give me a swimming-belt.
5. What do you know of the origin of the following: are, myself, those, won’t, first, eleven, lord, monk, fortnight, neighbour, pagan, steward, sojourn, pardon, savage?
6. Explain the meaning of the terms: mediaeval, Renaissance, Augustan Age of English Literature, dramatic unities, Gothic, episode, mock-heroic, blank verse, heroic couplet.
7. Expand the following metaphors into similes: (a) Paul planted, Apollos watered. (b) The ship ploughs the sea. (c) Reason is dethroned, and passion reigns. (d) Sweet were her words, her voice was soft. (e) I warmed both hands before the fire of life. (f) The flying gold of the ruined woodlands drove through the air.
8. When and by whom were the following works written: Comus, Absalom and Achitophel, The Battle of the Books, The Dunciad, The Prisoner of Chillon, The Advancement of Learning, The Traveller, Prometheus Unbound, The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, The Wealth of Nations, Rasselas, Lycidas, The Excursion, The Task?
9. Describe fully one of the following: (a) Chaucer’s Prologue to the Canterbury Tales. (b) Malory’s History of King Arthur. (c) More’s Utopia. (d) The first two cantos of Book I. of the Fairy Queen. (e) Julius Caesar, or The Merchant of Venice. (f) Book I. of Paradise Lost. (g) The Vicar of Wakefield. (h) Old Mortality, or Kenilworth. (i) The Ancient Mariner. (j) any one of The Idylls of the King.
10. Point out and correct any faults in the following sentences: (a) I intended to have gone to London, but I will likely be prevented. (b) Already embittered by his poverty, this new blow quite overwhelmed him. (c) He is a man whom I should say was one of the most incompetent that ever was raised to that position. (d) Thou lovest, but ne’er knew love’s sad satiety. (e) This vessel is the sixteenth large Atlantic greyhound which the Fairfield Company has built.
