LOWER GRADE
1900
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects:—The influence of climate upon national character. A comparison of the present methods of warfare with those of an earlier century.
3. Paraphrase the following lines, so as to bring out their full meaning:—Ignorant Assurance. Where men of judgment creep and feel their way, The positive pronounce without dismay, Their want of right and intellect supplied By sparks absurdity strikes out of pride. Where others toil with philosophic force, Their nimble nonsense takes a shorter course,—Flings at your head conviction in the lump, And gains remote conclusions at a jump. Their own defect, invisible to them, Seen in another, they at once condemn; And, though self-idolized in every case, Hate their own likeness in a brother’s face.
4. Parse the five words italicized in the above passage. Describe accurately the metre in which the above passage is written, and mention any English poem written in this metre.
5. Explain accurately what a metaphor is, and what purposes it serves. What is a mixed metaphor, and why is it an error? Point out and explain any three cases of metaphor in the passage quoted in Question 3.
6. Make a general analysis of the following sentence:—“He then went on to say that such an institution would be of immense service, as it would enable men to meet, and would create a multitude of private interests and friendships which would not be lost sight of or ignored, whatever the course of politics might be.” What words in the above sentence are derived from Latin, directly or indirectly?
7. Point out the faults in the following sentences. Explain why you consider them faults, and re-write each sentence in an improved form:—I intended to have called on him next week. She had a bad habit of procrastinating everything till tomorrow. In accepting the gift, the town council has saddled themselves with a white elephant. Though the three alternatives were all quite open to her, she did not wish to choose between them. I am one of those who cannot conceal my opinions about what I consider to be wrong.
8. In what century, and by whom, was each of the following works written:—The Canterbury Tales, The Faerie Queene, The Pilgrim’s Progress, Robinson Crusoe, The Cottar’s Saturday Night, Ivanhoe. Give a short account of any one character in any of these works.
