HIGHER GRADE
(1947)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a Composition, not exceeding three foolscap pages in length, on any one of the following subjects: What foreign country do you most want to visit, and why? The pleasures and worries of the life and work of one of the following: a school teacher, a bus or tram conductor, a father or mother of a large family, a nurse. (Write in the first person as if you were the man or woman in question.) Describe any great work (in painting, sculpture, music, architecture, engineering, or shipbuilding) which has deeply impressed you—how you came to see or know it, and its effect on you. Describe the town, village, or country district in which you live, so as to give a clear idea of its appearance, interest, and way of life. Write in the form of a speech for the school debating society: either for or against co-education (i.e., the education of boys and girls in the same classes of the same schools).
2. Suggest, in a phrase, an appropriate title for the passage, and mention one example from history of the kind of man referred to in the passage.
3. Give, in your own words, a summary of the substance of the passage, discarding, as far as possible, the figurative language of the original. (Your summary should not exceed approximately 150 words.)
4. Explain carefully the following phrases as used in the passage: a popular tumult (lines 8-9); the merits of statesmen and of systems are freely canvassed (lines 12-13); the excitement of a party (line 15); reduced to servitude (line 16); the dearest rays of departing freedom (line 34); and give the meaning of: defection (line 8) and mythological (line 19).
5. Write down a word that is the opposite in meaning of each of the following words as they are used in the passage: seductive (line 4); indolent (line 9); necessary (line 15); swell (line 24).
6. Under what image are (i) nations represented in line 5 “broken to the curb,” and (ii) minds in lines 21-22 “which have thrown a spell on the fierce spirits of nations”?
7. Make a general analysis into clauses of the sentence “The enterprise . . . truly great man (lines 25-26). What part of speech is (i) but in line 10 ”But a community . . .” and (ii) but in line 21 “is but an imperfect type”?
8. Rewrite, with the addition of all the proper marks of punctuation, the following passage: I shall come tomorrow Sunday afternoon and I’ll bring a Bible and Shakespeare’s Tempest with me I want to read the two passages that have most impressed me in my weeks reading the concluding chapters of the book of Job the thirty eighth to the end and Prospero’s speech to Ferdinand in act 4 scene 1 beginning you do look my son in a moved sort as if you were dismayed be cheerful sir our revels now are ended.
9. Put the following passage of direct speech into indirect speech, prefixing some such phrase as “He said that”: In all my experience of the flower shows in this village (and I can now remember twenty-five) I have never seen a more magnificent display of blooms. There have been fifty more entries than last year; the membership of the Society has nearly doubled; and the funds, thanks to the care of the treasurer, are in a very satisfactory state. We can, therefore, expect that, good as this show is, next year’s will be even better.
10. Combine the following statements into a well-knit paragraph: The King of the Goths no longer dissembled his appetite for plunder and revenge—he appeared in arms under the walls of Rome—the senators of Rome had no hope of relief—they prepared a desperate resistance—they wished to delay the ruin of their country—they were unable to guard against the secret conspiracy of slaves and domestics—at midnight the slaves and domestics treacherously opened the Salarian gate—the Imperial City was delivered to the licentious fury of the tribes of Germany and Scythia.
11. Name the figures of speech that appear in the following sentences: They sank like lead in the mighty waters.
12. Name the figures of speech that appear in the following sentences: I charge you by the law. Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar.
13. Name the figures of speech that appear in the following sentences: Sceptre and crown Must tumble down, And in the dust be equal made With the poor crooked scythe and spade.
14. Name the figures of speech that appear in the following sentences: Will all great Neptune’s ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No; this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red.
15. Name the figures of speech that appear in the following sentences: The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham’s bosom, And Anne my wife has bid the world good-night.
