HIGHER GRADE
(1930)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Show very briefly the historical significance of five of the following events: the death of Edward the Confessor; the murder of the Red Comyn; the marriage of Edward II; the battle of Bosworth; the death of Mary Tudor; the Solemn League and Covenant; the siege of Vienna (1683); the siege of Arcot; the fall of the Bastille; the surrender of Napoleon III; the Serajevo murders.
2. Give some account of British revolts against the Romans. What was the effect of the withdrawal of the Roman garrisons?
3. How did Canute come to be King of England and Macbeth come to be King of Scotland? Sum up the results of each reign.
4. How is the history of England connected with that of France in the reigns of John and Henry V?
5. Estimate the respective contributions of Wallace and Bruce to the vindication of Scottish independence.
6. Indicate the importance of any three of the following: the Peasants’ Revolt; the career of Joan of Arc; the fall of the House of Douglas; the English cloth industry in the Middle Ages; the invention of printing.
7. Either How did the discovery of the New World influence the history of Spain and England in the sixteenth century? Or Why has the reign of James IV been called a golden age in Scottish History?
8. How did England escape an internal religious war at the period of the Reformation and become involved in one in the following century?
9. Give a brief account of any two of the following: the Elizabethan Poor Law; the establishment of the East India Company; Gustavus Adolphus; John Hampden; General Monck; William Penn; Peter the Great; the foundation of the Bank of England; "enclosures" in the eighteenth century.
10. Trace briefly the causes of wars between Great Britain and France between 1689 and 1763 and account for the long interval of peace after 1713.
11. How are any two of the following writers connected with the history of their times: Sir Thomas More, Francis Bacon, Jonathan Swift, Lord Bolingbroke?
12. Either What influence, apart from foreign policy, did the French Revolution exercise upon Great Britain? Or Explain how Great Britain became rich enough to stand the strain of the long French War, 1793-1815.
13. Draw a map to illustrate one of the following, and explain the importance of the places you mark in connection with the events to which your map relates: the growth of British Dominion in India, 1763-1857; the Peninsular War; the development of Australia; the Union of Italy.
14. Trace the relations between Great Britain and the United States of America from 1783 to 1918.
15. What important political movements or arguments do you connect with any one of the following: Edmund Burke; Samuel Wilberforce; Sir Robert Peel; the Seventh Earl of Shaftesbury (Lord Ashley); Charles Stewart Parnell?
16. Give a brief outline either of the changes in the parliamentary franchise since 1832 or of the development of the means of transport and communication since the introduction of railways.
