HIGHER GRADE
(1910)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. On the accompanying chart of the World: (a) Insert in their proper places the following names: Bass Strait, Bering Strait, Gulf of Mexico, Fiji Islands. Hongkong, Vancouver Island, Mesopotamia, Nova Scotia, Queensland. (b) Insert and name the rivers Congo, Orinoco, Volga, Yangtse-Kiang. (c) Show by a dot the position of the following towns and write the name of each close to the dot: Boston (U.S.A.), Buenos Aires, Hamburg, Madras, Panama, Shanghai, Singapore, Wellington (N.Z.). (d) Mark the zero or prime meridian and the antipodes of Scotland.
2. On the accompanying map of parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa: (a) Shade the desert area. (b) Name the following: Persian Gulf, Bosporus, Armenia, Crete, Crimea, Caucasus, Hindu Kush, Euphrates, Oxus (Amu Daria), Indus. (c) Show by a dot the position of the following towns, and write the name of each close to the dot: Athens, Baghdad, Baku, Damascus, Kabul, Sevastopol, Rome, Teheran, Suez.
3. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: (a) Name the Solway Firth and the mouth of the Tyne; the Mersey and Humber estuaries; the mouth of the Bristol Avon and the Thames estuary. Measure the shortest distance between each of these pairs. (b) Name and shade the following mountainous regions: The Pennines, Lammermuirs, Wicklow Mountains, Dartmoor, North Downs. (c) Write "Wheat," "Hops," "Iron Ore," over the districts famous for these products. (d) Show by a dot the position of the following places and write the name of each close to the dot: Limerick, Londonderry, Holyhead, Plymouth, Preston, York, Dumfries, Oban, Perth, Wick.
4. What is meant by high and low tide? How often does each occur? What is their use to navigation? Name a sea in Europe which has little or no tide. Can you give any explanation?
5. Is it warmer or colder in the west of Scotland than in the east (a) in summer? (b) in winter? (c) why? (d) Is it wetter in the west or east? (e) why?
6. Write brief descriptions of two of the following, the life of the inhabitants, and their most important towns: The Plains of Bengal, the English Black Country, Flanders, Manitoba, Nigeria, the Pampas, Spain, Tasmania, the Transvaal.
7. Describe in some detail the situation of Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Stirling. Suggest geographical reasons for important cities having sprung up in these situations.
