Lower Grade
(1922)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition of not more than two pages on any one of the following subjects: (a) Life-history of a Swallow. (You may put this in autobiographical form if you like.) (b) My favourite Holiday Resort. (c) Describe as fully and vividly as you can either The Murder of James I. of Scotland; or The last Fight of the Revenge; or The Persecution of the Covenanters; or The Death of Nelson.
2. Read the following poem, and then, without paraphrasing it, answer the questions that follow: THE SOLDIER’S DREAM. Our bugles sang truce—for the night-cloud had lowered... [full poem text].
a. Amid what surroundings was the soldier when he had this dream?
b. What was his dream?
c. Bring out the contrast between his actual surroundings and the scenes that he saw in his dream.
d. Is there anything in the poem to make you think that the soldier was not a British soldier?
e. Point out two metaphors in the poem that are natural on the lips of a soldier.
f. Explain the words printed in italics.
3. Scan the first stanza of the above poem, marking the feet and accents. Write down words which as nearly as possible mean the opposite of the following: complex, expedient, confident, acute, hopeful, compulsory, deep, repulsive, pessimist, genuine. Give the meaning of these phrases and tell how they come to have that meaning: “to bell the cat”; “to burn the midnight oil”; “a talent for music”; “to burn your boats”; “to give a wide berth to anything.” Answer this advertisement: “Wanted, apprentice clerk for insurance head office; apply, stating qualifications and giving two references, to Stuart & Robertson, 729 George Place, Edinburgh.”
4. Answer any two of the following: a. What is the picture called up in each case by the word printed in italics? Name the poems in which these verses occur. b. What is a ballad? In what ballads have you read about Thomas the Rhymer, Maid Marian, Earl Percy, Kinmont Willie? Give a short account of one of the ballads that you name. c. Do you prefer a story chiefly remarkable for a good plot, or one chiefly remarkable for interesting characters? Mention one or two of your favourites in each class, and give reasons for putting them in that class. d. Describe the character drawn by Shakespeare, or Scott, or Dickens whom you like best, and the character whom you like least. e. Name the authors of the following books, tell when they lived, and give a fuller account of any one of the books: Gulliver’s Travels, She Stoops to Conquer, Kenilworth, Sesame and Lilies, Sohrab and Rustum.
