HIGHER GRADE
(1923)
HISTORY
PAPER 1
1. Choose any two of the following topics and write a brief note about each of them: Roman roads in Britain. The political consequences of the invention of gunpowder. The change in international relationships brought about by the Reformation. The Liberty of the Subject. A contrast between the reasons for emigration to the colonies three hundred years ago and at the present time. Explain any one of the following terms: The Cabinet. An Insurance Company. Indirect Taxation. Education Authority.
2. For what reasons may the history of Scotland be said to contain more romantic interest than the history of England?
3. Why was Winchester at one period the capital of England, and when and why did London come to supersede it?
4. “Success is often denied to the greatest national heroes.” Criticise this statement with reference to the career of either Simon de Montfort or Sir William Wallace.
5. The English Reformation has been described as beginning about 1533, in 1547, and in 1558-59. Give reasons in support of each of these dates.
6. How is the reign of Queen Elizabeth connected with events and adventures on the seas?
7. Write such an account of the character and policy of James VI. and I. as a Scottish Presbyterian might have given to an English Puritan in 1603.
8. “He was greater as a soldier than as a statesman.” How far is this true of Cromwell, and of the Duke of Wellington?
9. Explain the importance in English history of any three of the following: the Black Prince, Warwick the King Maker, the Earl of Clarendon, Lord Bolingbroke, the Duke of Cumberland, John Wilkes.
10. Discuss one of the following topics: the part played by the Church of England and the Tory party in the Revolution of 1688-9; the causes of the American War of Independence; the causes of the outbreak of war with France in 1793; industrial and social discontent after Waterloo.
11. In what respects may the reign of Queen Victoria be described as the greatest in our history?
12. Give a brief account of any two of the following: the legislation of Lycurgus; ostracism; the story of Thermopylae; the rise of Athens to greatness; the Retreat of the Ten Thousand; Epaminondas.
13. Why is the history of so small and so divided a country as Greece of such interest and importance after the lapse of more than two thousand years?
14. Give a brief account of any two of the following: the legends of the founding of Rome; the Twelve Tables; the conquest of the Italian peninsula; the first Punic War; the merits and defects of pro-consular government; the achievements of the Gracchi; the career of Mark Antony.
15. Either give some account of the political aims and opinions of Cicero; or account for the impression left upon subsequent generations by the personality of the Emperor Augustus.
16. Estimate the importance of any two of the following in the history of their times: Julian the Apostate; Theodoric the Goth; Mohammed; the Emperor Henry IV.; Pope Innocent III.; Savonarola; Francis I. of France; John Calvin; the Great Elector; Charles XII. of Sweden; Maria Theresa; Mirabeau; Bismarck; Mazzini.
17. Either describe the circumstances which led to the fall of the Eastern Empire in 1453; or trace the series of conflicts between France and the German States from 1756 to 1871.
18. Explain and illustrate the growth and the decline of the power of Spain.
19. Write a note on any two of the following: the baptism of Clovis; the Normans in France; the revival of the Empire by Otto I.; the career of Henry the Lion; French monarchy under Philip Augustus; the Council of Constance; the Diet of Worms; the siege of Vienna in 1683; the career of Montcalm; the battle of Austerlitz; the capture of Rome in 1870; the rise of Japan.
20. Discuss one of the following topics: the relations between Great Britain and the United States of America in 1810-1814 and in 1861-1865; the growth of British dominion in South Africa; the German Empire, 1871-1914.
