LOWER GRADE
(1919)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of the world: (a) Print in their proper places the following names: Florida, Australian Alps, Sandwich Islands, Pamirs, Formosa, River Irawady, Uganda, River Orinoco, Korea, Yucatan; (b) Mark the position of the following towns with a dot, and print the name of each town close to the dot: Port Said, Adelaide, Valparaiso, Mombasa, Naples, Damascus, Archangel, Aden, Bombay, Durban; (c) Draw a short line to show the position of the following, and mark each line with the initial letter of the appropriate proper name: Kiel Canal, Dardanelles, Strait of Belle Isle, Panama Canal, Strait of Magellan, Suez Canal.
2. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: (a) Mark the position of each town of the following pairs of towns with a dot, and print the name of each town close to the dot: Belfast and Ardrossan, Dublin and Holyhead, Cork and Bristol; Draw a straight line between each pair of ports, calculate the distance between the two, and write the result along the line; (b) Name on the map the rivers Clyde, Nith, Tweed, and Teviot; Draw one main railway route either from Edinburgh to Carlisle or from Glasgow to Carlisle, with careful reference to the river valleys, and mark and name one intermediate station; (c) Show by light shading one small area specially noted for the production of each of the following: Raspberries, flax, granite, hops, slate. Write the name of each product over its special area.
3. Name two Scottish manufacturing industries of general importance; state the area or areas in which each is chiefly carried on, and explain why each area is specially fitted to its particular industry.
4. Illustrate by an account of the country through which flow the River Forth and its tributaries the meaning of the saying: “Forth bridles the wild Highlander.” Write a note on the town of Stirling, showing its importance in this connection.
5. Describe briefly the climate of (a) South-West Ireland; (b) East Anglia; (c) Ayrshire, and show how the climate in each case affects the occupations of the people and the produce of the land.
6. Where do (1) coal and (2) iron chiefly occur in England? What special advantages of position do the English coalfields possess?
7. Make a sketch-map of a coral atoll, showing the reef and the lagoon. Draw also a section across your map to indicate the difference in the depth of the water on the two sides of the reef. Write a short description of an atoll, explaining what kind of plants you would expect to find there and what kinds of food are available for the inhabitants.
8. Give some account of South Africa, or of Italy, or of Japan, or of New Zealand (one country only), under the headings of (a) scenery; (b) products; (c) occupations of the people.
9. Name one part of the world outside Europe in which wheat, sugar, cotton, tobacco are respectively produced on a large scale (one area for each product). In the case of one product, explain why the region named is specially suited to that crop.
10. Select any two of the following rivers: Rhine, Rhone, Volga, Danube. Describe briefly the course of the two rivers selected, name two important towns situated on each, and state why these towns are important.
11. On a ship crossing the Atlantic from Queenstown to New York the time shown on its clocks is altered every day at noon. Why is this done? If the ship moves from east to west 10 geographical miles per hour, by how much, and in which direction, would the hands of its clocks require to be moved each day? Why? Would a traveller also require to move the hands of his watch in a trans-continental railway journey from New York to San Francisco?
