Higher Grade
(1924)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition on any one of the following: Fashion in Dress; "Alone, alone, all, all alone, Alone on a wide, wide sea"; Contrast the characters of Queen Elizabeth and Mary, Queen of Scots; If you had to spend the rest of your life in some country other than your own, what country would you choose and why?; An Egyptian mummy comes back to life and comments on modern civilization.
2. Read the following passage carefully and answer the questions that follow: (a) What single fact shows that the Carnatic is not fertile? (b) What do all countries need to ensure prosperity? (c) What else does the Carnatic need that most other countries have by nature? (d) Why is this peculiarly necessary in the Carnatic? (e) How and by whom had this lack been supplied? (f) What audience is Burke addressing, and what is the general object of his speech? (g) Explain the metaphorical sentence "This is the national bank...irretrievably" by reference to what has gone before. (h) Give the exact meaning of the words in italics.
3. (a) Rewrite as blank verse without changing a word or the order of the words: "I should be much for open war, O Peers, as not behind in hate, if what was urged main reason to persuade immediate war did not dissuade me most, and seem to cast ominous conjecture on the whole success." (b) Give a general analysis of the above sentence. Express its whole meaning in prose as briefly as you can. (c) Distinguish the following pairs of words and make sentences in which each word is used correctly: exorbitant and exuberant; incredible and incredulous; unpractical and impracticable; magnificent and munificent; officious and official; epitaph and epigram. (d) To what family of languages does English belong, and to what other languages is it most nearly akin?
4. Compare or contrast the two characters included in any of the following pairs: Chaucer’s Knight and Thackeray’s Colonel Newcome; Chaucer’s Clerk of Oxenford and Scott’s Dominie Sampson; Chaucer’s Good Parson and Jane Austen’s Mr. Collins; Chaucer’s Monk and Scott’s Prior Aymer.
5. How does Shakespeare let us know what has happened before a play begins? How does he contrive to inform us of events during the action of the play which he does not wish to present on the stage?
6. What metres did Milton employ in L’Allegro, Lycidas, and Paradise Lost? How does the metre in each case suit the spirit of the poem?
7. Paint from your reading a picture of London life in the days of Addison and Pope.
8. Describe Burke’s style and point out how he achieves his lofty effects.
9. Why are the following books famous: Percy’s Reliques of Ancient Poetry, Wordsworth and Coleridge’s Lyrical Ballads, Scott’s Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border?
