HONOURS
1890
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Show the influence of social, political, and religious conditions upon literature in the time of Chaucer or Shakespeare or Pope or Byron.
2. Is it the fact, and, if so, how would you account for the fact, that our prose literature reached great excellence more slowly than our poetry?
3. At what periods of our history have drama, satire, and history respectively flourished most? Give an account and estimate of any satirist or any historian.
4. Describe fully any one of Shakespeare’s most famous characters.
5. Compare as writers either Chaucer and Spenser, or Milton and Bunyan, or Johnson and Goldsmith, or Burns and Wordsworth, or Scott and Dickens.
6. What do you know of the scientific achievements of any two of the following: Bacon, Newton, Darwin?
7. Translate into modern English: Efne ða se apostol thas lare sprecende wæs, ða bar sum widewe hire suna lie to bebyrgenne, se hæfde gewifod ðrittigum nihtum ær. Seo dreorige modor ða samod mid ðam licmannum wepende hi astrehte ad ðæs halgan apostoles fotum, biddende fæst he hire sunu on Godes naman arærde, swa swa he dyde ðære synderwan Drusianam. Johannes ofhreow ðære meder and ðara licmanna dreorignysse, and astrehte his lichaman to eorðan on langsumum gebede, and ða set nextan aras, and eft upahafenum handum langlice bæd.
8. Decline the italicised substantives.
9. Translate into Anglo-Saxon: (a) When it was evening, the lord of the vineyard said to his officer, Call the labourers and give them their rewards. (b) A hundred men, coming in three ships, lost two of the ships, and sold themselves to the king, who protected them.
10. Translate into modern English as literally as possible: (a) Thus com lo! Engelond into Normandies bond. And the Normans ne couthe speke tho bote hor owe speche, And speke French as hii dude atom, and hor children dude also teche. So that heiemen of this loud, that of hor blod come, Holdeth alle thulke speche that hii of hom nome. Vor bote a man conne Fronss, me telth of him lute; Ac lowe men holdeth to Engliss, & to hor owe speche yute. (b) Of mouth of childer and soukand Made thou lof in ilka land, For thi faes, that thou fordo The faa, the wreker him unto. For I sal se thine hevenes hegh, And werkes of thine fingres slegh; The mone and sternes mani ma, That thou grounded to be swa.
11. Show from these two passages in what dialect each is written; and trace the history of the three main dialects after (1350).
12. In what sense can English be called a mixed language?
