LOWER GRADE
1955
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Describe briefly how either Scotland or England came to be united under one ruler.
2. Write notes on two of the following: Agricola, Domesday Book, Thomas Becket, Edward I’s Scottish policy, the Scottish parliament in the later Middle Ages, the causes of the Wars of the Roses.
3. Do you consider either Henry VII of England or James IV of Scotland to have been a great king? Give reasons.
4. Trace in outline the main events from the accession of Mary Stewart which led up to the Treaty of Edinburgh. What justification is there for calling that treaty a turning point in Scottish history?
5. Give an account of England’s relations with Spain in the reigns of Mary and Elizabeth Tudor.
6. Describe Charles I’s financial expedients from his accession to the summoning of the Long Parliament. State very briefly any causes of trouble other than financial.
7. Give an account of Cromwell’s domestic policy after the expulsion of the Rump and explain why the Commonwealth came to an end.
8. Trace and explain the events of James II’s reign that led to the Revolution of 1688.
9. What were the main achievements in home and foreign affairs of Queen Anne’s reign? Does the reign deserve to be called a glorious one?
10. Give an account of the British and French colonies on the mainland of North America about the year 1750 and show what advantages each side possessed.
11. By what methods did the farmers of either Scotland or England increase production in the eighteenth century?
12. State briefly why Britain and France went to war in 1793. What part did Britain play in the war up to 1802?
13. Give reasons why there was a demand for parliamentary reform in the years preceding 1832, and show how far the Reform Act of 1832 met that demand.
14. What were the terms of the Treaty of Paris (1856) and what were the further developments in the Eastern Question up to the Treaty of Berlin?
15. How do you account for the success of the Liberals in the election of 1906? What were their main achievements in home affairs up to 1914?
16. Write notes on two of the following: (1) The causes of Lord Durham’s mission to Canada. (2) The construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway and its importance. (3) The causes of the Great Trek. (4) Paul Kruger.
17. Write notes on two of the following: The effects of the rebellion of 1745 on the Highlands, the Diplomatic Revolution of 1756, James Watt, Robert Owen, Abraham Lincoln, Disraeli’s domestic policy, the Treaty of Versailles (1919).
18. Either: Give an account of the projects for the defence of Western Europe proposed since the second world war. Or: What problems have confronted the British Empire in Africa (apart from the Union of South Africa) since 1945? Or: To what extent have economic problems in Scotland in the twentieth century been distinct from those in England?
