HIGHER GRADE
(1960)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Why did the kings of Northumbria and Mercia fail to unite England and those of Wessex succeed?
2. Compare the importance of the reigns of Henry I and Henry II in the history of England.
3. Can you justify the view that the thirteenth century up to the death of Alexander III was a “golden age” in Scottish history?
4. With what countries and in what commodities did either Scotland or England do most of its trade in the fifteenth century?
5. Write notes on two of the following: the Roman walls; Christianity in Scotland before 597; Cnut; Magna Carta; the Legislation of Edward I; the Black Prince; Bishop Kennedy.
6. Why was the power of Henry VII so much greater than that of the Lancastrian and Yorkist kings?
7. Trace the chief steps in the Scottish Reformation from 1560 to 1592. Or Describe the dangers which threatened the Elizabethan settlement of the English Church, from Roman Catholics and from Puritans.
8. Is the stupidity of Charles I an adequate explanation of the troubles of 1629-42 in both Scotland and England?
9. Explain the foreign and domestic policy of Danby and account for his fall.
10. How far is this true of the revolution of 1688-9 in either Scotland or England?
11. Why were the Whigs in power throughout the reigns of George I and George II?
12. Was the American War of Independence caused more by political or by economic grievances?
13. On what grounds may the reign of William IV (1830-7) be called an era of reform?
14. Do you consider that Disraeli’s government was more beneficial in domestic or in foreign and colonial policy?
15. How far is it correct to call the foreign policy of Lord Salisbury one of “splendid isolation”? Why was it abandoned?
16. Trace briefly the main stages in the development of the trade union movement from the repeal of the Combination Acts (1824) to the passing of the Trade Disputes Act (1906).
17. In what ways was the settlement of Australia affected by geographical factors? Or How far is this a satisfactory description of the Indian Mutiny?
18. Write notes on two of the following: John Wesley; the foreign policy of Castlereagh; the Disruption of the Church of Scotland; General Charles Gordon; Charles Stewart Parnell; the Parliament Act (1911).
