Higher Grade
1959
ENGLISH
PAPER: 2
1. Read the passage printed above, and then answer, as far as possible in your own words, the following questions on it:
a. Explain briefly but clearly the meaning of the following phrases as they are used in the passage: general stock of facts and sentiments (line 13); means of communication (lines 13-14); ascendancy of public opinion (line 22); social eminences (line 23).
b. Give the meaning of the following words as they are used in the passage: assimilated (line 2); asserting (line 8); diffusing (line 17); agency (line 20); entrenched (line 23); non-conformity (line 27).
c. Give a general analysis of the sentence beginning, “Great as are the differences...” (lines 8-9).
d. What sentence do you regard as the key or topic sentence of the paragraph? Justify your choice.
e. Comment briefly on the importance of the sentence, “And the assimilation is still proceeding.” (line 9), in the development of the argument.
f. Explain clearly the difference between a “trade” and a “profession” (line 3).
g. Express in your own words the meaning of the last few lines of the passage, from “there ceases to be” (lines 26-27) to the end.
h. Suggest a suitable title for the passage.
i. Make a summary of the whole passage. (Your summary should not exceed 120 words.)
2. Combine the following statements into a well-knit paragraph: The King of the Goths no longer dissembled his appetite for plunder and revenge—he appeared in arms under the walls of the capital—the trembling senate had no hope of relief—they prepared a desperate resistance—they wished to delay the ruin of their country—they were unable to guard against the secret conspiracy of slaves and domestics—these were attached to the cause of the enemy—at midnight the Salarian gate was silently opened—the inhabitants were awakened by the tremendous sound of the Gothic trumpet—the Imperial City was delivered to the licentious fury of the tribes of Germany and Scythia.
3. a. Explain the meaning and bring out the force of the prefix in any five of the following words: hyperbole, antithesis, hypodermic, sympathy, diameter, geophysical, telegram, microscope.
b. Choose any five of the following, and give an example of each: cliche, euphemism, archaism, metonymy, epigram, alliteration, climax.
