LOWER GRADE
(1923)
HISTORY
PAPER 2
1. Place the following events in the century appropriate to each on the accompanying table: the battle of Neville’s Cross; the impeachment of Warren Hastings; the reign of Macbeth; the capture of Constantinople by the Turks; the death of the Maid of Norway; the execution of Lady Jane Grey; the charge of the Light Brigade at Balaclava; the accession of Alfred the Great; the birth of Robert Burns; the wreck of the White Ship; the death of Martin Luther; the battle of Omdurman; the Solemn League and Covenant; the murder of Becket; the Toleration Act; the career of Dunstan.
2. Distinguish between: Queen Mary Tudor and Queen Mary of Orange; William Rufus and William the Lion; Thomas Cromwell (Earl of Essex) and Oliver Cromwell.
3. What part was played in Scottish History by any two of the following: Edward Balliol; the first Regent Albany; Bishop Kennedy; the Regent Morton; Alexander Leslie, Earl of Leven; Viscount Dundee; James Watt?
4. For what reasons did James II. suppress the Black Douglases, and why may their fall be regarded as a turning point in the history of the Scottish monarchy?
5. Tell briefly the story of the Scottish Reformation during the reign of Mary, Queen of Scots.
6. Give a short account of any two of the following: the Scottish conquest of the Lothians; Scandinavian settlements in Scotland; the battle of Stirling Bridge; the Scottish Navy under James IV.; the Bishops’ Wars; the battle of Worcester; the Convention of 1689; the escape of Prince Charles Edward.
7. In what novels or poems does Sir Walter Scott describe: the condition of Scotland under Robert III.; the court of James IV.; the Civil War in Scotland in Charles I’s reign; the Covenanters in the time of Charles II.? Write a short note upon any one of these topics, as treated by Scott.
8. Tell what you know of the history of any Scottish Burgh or Cathedral or Abbey.
9. Give some account of any two of the following: Ezra; Demosthenes; Mark Antony; St. Augustine of Canterbury; Pope Innocent III.; John Calvin; Henry IV. of France; Charles XII. of Sweden; the Empress Maria Theresa; Metternich; Marshal Foch.
10. Choose any King of England between 1016 and 1307, and tell briefly what was good and what was bad in his policy and in its results.
11. Give a brief account of the circumstances in which any two of the following battles were fought, and say why they were important: Bannockburn, Agincourt, Towton, Naseby; Sedgemoor, Plassey, Trafalgar, Corunna, the Marne (1914).
12. Tell briefly the story of Warwick the King Maker and Archbishop Cranmer.
13. Write notes on any two of the following: the accession of the House of Tudor; the foreign policy of Henry VIII.; the Petition of Right; the flight of James II. and VII.; the Seven Years’ War; the passing of the Reform Act of 1832.
14. How did Canada and the Punjab come to belong to the British Empire?
15. What causes have led to the growth of large towns in the last century and a half?
16. Sketch the career of either the Duke of Wellington or Lord Roberts.
17. What were the causes of quarrel between England and France in the reign of Edward III. and between Great Britain and France in the reign of Queen Anne? At what period in the nineteenth century did Britain and France form a military alliance?
18. Explain three of the following terms: the Provisions of Oxford; the Elizabethan Church Settlement; the Commonwealth; the Protectorate; the Act of Settlement; Catholic Emancipation; the British North America Act; the Union of South Africa.
