HIGHER GRADE
(1920)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following themes: (a) A defence (such as might be read in a school debating society) of Queen Elizabeth for the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots; or of the English Parliament for the execution of Charles I.; or of Shylock for his attempted revenge; or of Becky Sharp for her life and conduct. (b) Describe the part played by the Mercantile Marine in the late War. (c) Compare the state of Britain in 1820 and in 1920. Have all the changes been for the better?
2. Read the following passage carefully, and then answer the questions which follow it: (a) What is the “deception” or “illusion” which Macaulay is here describing? (b) State in your own words the cause to which he ascribes it. (c) By what comparison does he illustrate it? (d) Does the comparison at all points fit the thing to be illustrated? If not, where do you think it fails? (e) What exactly does Macaulay mean by the last sentence, “But if we...antiquity”? (f) Do you gather anything from the passage as to Macaulay’s own conception of progress?
3. (a) Distinguish the following pairs of words: accidental, incidental; dependant, dependent; deprecate, depreciate; ingenious, ingenuous; venal, venial. (b) Write down two words now in common use which were added to the English vocabulary by each of the following: the mission of St. Augustine; the establishment of the Feudal System; the discovery of America; intercourse with Italy; recent scientific inventions. (c) Distinguish “epic poems” and “pastoral poems,” and name one example of each, with author. Define “irony,” “a refrain,” “rhetorical question,” and quote or invent one example of each.
4. When the pilgrims described in Chaucer’s Prologue were riding to Canterbury, into what groups would they naturally fall—i.e., who do you think would ride with whom, having regard to rank and character? Who does Chaucer say rode first, and who last?
5. Describe any two of Shakespeare’s heroines, so as to bring out the part they take in the action of the play, and the qualities which Shakespeare seems to admire in women.
6. Illustrate Burns’s sympathy with the working people in their labours, their troubles and their joys, quoting or referring to particular poems. What traces of similar sympathy with the working people have you noticed in Gray and Goldsmith?
7. Illustrate Wordsworth’s fondness for simple subjects, simple language and simple metres; and compare him in these respects with Keats.
8. Many Victorian poems take the form of “Dramatic Lyrics,” or “Dramatic Monologues,” in which the poet speaks not in his own person but through an assumed character. Mention five poems of this type by Browning, Tennyson or any other Victorian poet; tell the subject of each, and summarise one of them at some length.
9. The English Essay has taken various forms. We have reflective or philosophical essays, descriptive essays, historical essays, character sketches, and satirical or humorous essays on manners. Name one example of each of these five kinds, with the author’s name. Describe any one kind more fully, giving several examples of it. Under which head, if any, would you place Lamb’s Dissertation upon Roast Pig?
10. The events of a novel may be narrated in the first person. Name five examples of this kind of novel by well-known authors, including at least one by Dickens and one by Thackeray. Indicate some of the advantages and disadvantages of the method. Must the narrator always be the hero of the story?
