LOWER GRADE
(1960)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of part of the British Isles: (a) Name the three towns lettered A, B, and C, and the three rivers marked with a cross, and insert the district names of the areas lettered D and E. (b) Mark with a cross and name the Peak District, the York Moors, the Lammermuirs, and the County of Durham. (c) Name the July isotherm marked on the map; estimate the mean July temperatures at G and H; state why the mean July temperature for G is nearer to the actual temperature than that shown for H. (d) On the railway from Glasgow to the south mark and name Beattock, Shap, Annan Valley, and Crewe; mark an area noted for dairy farming (D), an area noted for salt-mining (S), and an area noted for heavy industry (H).
2. On the accompanying map of the world: (a) Name the six capitals marked with a dot and beside each name the appropriate country; identify the Andes, Caucasus, the Karroos, and the Tarim Basin; name the rivers Ob, Mackenzie, Zambezi, and Orinoco. (b) Name the four ocean currents marked and state whether each is a warm or a cold current. (c) Beside each of the three stippled areas state the season of maximum rainfall, the warmest month, and the natural vegetation.
3. Study the contour map supplied and then answer the following: (a) Describe the relief and drainage and show to what extent they have influenced the route system of the area. (b) Comment on the distribution of factories. (c) Why did a port develop at A and not at F?
4. Describe the main features of the distribution of land and sea throughout the world and in your answer contrast the northern and southern hemispheres.
5. How would you recognise that a mountainous area had been glaciated? Consider features of both erosion and deposition.
6. What is meant by cyclonic rainfall, relief rainfall, and convectional rainfall? Select Java or the Western Ghats or southern Japan and give an explanatory account of the seasonal variation in its rainfall throughout the year.
7. On the map of the world provided for question 2 three areas A, B, and C are marked. State whether these are densely, moderately, or sparsely peopled and account for the density of each.
8. Account for the growth of either heavy industries in Lanarkshire and South Wales or woollen industries in the Borders and the West Riding of Yorkshire. In what ways do these examples of the same industry differ?
9. Describe the main imports of England and Wales from across the North Sea, the English Channel, and the Irish Sea. In each case name two of the main British ports. Or Write a geographical description of one of the following: The Pennines; the Fens; the mainland of Scotland north of the Caledonian Canal.
10. Name four of the large industrial areas of Europe, including at least one from European Russia. Select one of these and account for its main industries. Or Indicate the similarities and differences in site, position and importance of one of the following pairs of ports: Rotterdam and Bordeaux; Marseilles and Genoa; Copenhagen and Stockholm.
11. Describe the main features of the climate of two of the following: The Meseta of Spain; the Plain of Lombardy; the Steppes of Russia. For one of the areas selected show how its climate influences the main types of farming.
12. Write a geographical account of either the lumbering industry of Canada or the iron and steel industry of the United States.
13. Write a geographical description of the Prairies of Canada or the Valley of California or the Corn Belt of the United States.
14. Select one of the great rivers of monsoon Asia and write an explanatory account of the distribution of population within its basin.
15. Draw one or more sketch-maps of the basin of the Niger to show the zones of climate and vegetation through which it flows. Explain why the exploration of this river was so difficult.
16. Exactly where and of what importance are the Canterbury Plains, the Riverina, and the Northern Territory of Australia?
17. Describe the climate and agriculture of either the Argentine or Chile. In your answer bring out their relationships.
