HIGHER GRADE
(1910)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following subjects: (a) Sea-fights of the Past and Present. Contrast the conditions of naval warfare at the time, e.g., of the Armada, or even of Trafalgar, with those which prevailed, e.g., in the recent Russo-Japanese War. (b) Three revellers, hearing that Death is the foe of Youth, set forth to seek him out and slay him. By the way they meet an Old Man (who is Death himself in disguise); he directs them to a forest where they may find their enemy. Instead whereof they find a great treasure... Tell this story more fully and dramatically, working out the conclusion in whatever way seems most probable and striking. (c) Queen Victoria and Queen Elizabeth—a comparison.
2. Recast the following Essay in a good modern style. Break it up into three paragraphs, and modernise the archaisms. You may expand, if necessary, to make the meaning clear; you may condense or recast such figures as seem old-fashioned; but change nothing that is still good, clear, unaffected English.
3. In each of the following quotations point out a construction that might be called ungrammatical. Are the constructions, therefore, bad English? If not, on what grounds would you defend each? Correct those that you think indefensible. (a) Duke F. Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste, And get you from our court. Ros. Me, uncle? (Shakespeare.) (b) Be thou, Spirit fierce, My spirit! Be thou me, impetuous one. (Shelley.) (c) Beelzebub, than whom, Satan except, none higher sat. (Milton.) (d) The nations not so blest as thee Must in their turn to tyrants fall. (Thomson.) (e) Doubtless thou fearest to meet Balder’s voice, Thy brother. (M. Arnold.) (f) Without meaning to hurt either of your feelings. (Conan Doyle.) (g) It made her mad to see their money chucked away to other people, and they getting no good of it. (Mrs. Humphry Ward.) (h) I say anything disrespectful of Dr. Kenn? Heaven forbid! (George Eliot.) (j) She fancies herself better than you and me. (Thackeray.) (k) New means must of necessity be had recourse to. (Carlyle.)
4. Read the above passage from beginning to end; then (a) give the exact meaning of the italicised words as used in this passage; (b) point out which of these words have now changed in meaning, and account (if you can) for the change.
5. Bring out and contrast the scientific ideas (astronomical or other) which underlie each of the following pairs of quotations. How far do these ideas help us to date the quotations? Compare the two members of each pair of quotations in respect of poetical effect.
6. Compare the three following passages in respect of style. What merits and what faults do you find in each? To what period would you assign each? Give your reasons.
7. Define Ode, Elegy, Pastoral, Sonnet: and, selecting one of these poetic forms, give instances of it (with authors’ names) from various periods of English Literature. Illustrate your answer by quotations if you can.
8. "Comedy generally shows us the exposure of some folly, hypocrisy or affectation. With this in English Comedy a love-story is often blended." Illustrate this from such comedies as Much Ado, The School for Scandal, &c.; or from such novels as Emma, Vanity Fair, Martin Chuzzlewit, Evan Harrington, &c. Try to show how the comedy and the love-story are blended.
9. Name five Waverley Novels that have their scenes laid (wholly or partly) in Scotland. With what part of Scotland and what period of Scottish history does each deal? Describe your favourite among the purely Scottish characters in any one novel.
