LOWER GRADE
(1919)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of these subjects: (a) Our Holiday Camp; (b) A Summer Sunday in a Country Parish; (c) Bees; (d) Describe either a motor-car or an electric tram.
2. Read the passage carefully, and then: (a) Draw a rough plan of the castle, showing the position of the cliffs, the artificial ditch, the offices and stables, the low embattled wall, and the tower; (b) Write a short paragraph describing a view of the castle from the sea—as seen by daylight from the deck of a passing ship.
3. Re-read the passage given in Question 2, and then answer the following questions: (a) What is an eyry? Why is the castle called an eyry? (b) What does “flitting” mean? What has this to do with the view? (c) What is the opposite of “artificial”? What single word might have been used for an artificial ditch defending a castle? (d) Is “encircled” the right word, considering the shape of the court-yard? Suggest a better word. (e) What do the words “sheeted spectre” mean?
4. (a) Give a general analysis of the second sentence of the passage quoted in Question 2; (b) Explain briefly these expressions: “To build on sand”; “casting pearls before swine”; “a Quixotic enterprise”; “a forlorn hope”; “coal-rationing”; (c) Define Personification. Invent a short paragraph personifying Peace.
5. Answer any two of the following four questions: (a) Name five of Wordsworth’s short poems, and describe the subject of each in a single sentence; (b) Choose any two of the novels Ivanhoe, Rob Roy, The Fortunes of Nigel, The Talisman, Kenilworth, and in each of the two chosen name the hero of the love story, name the principal historical character, and show how the former is brought into relation with the latter in the novel; (c) Describe briefly the first scene of any play that you have read, and show how it prepares for the story of the play; (d) What is your favourite collection of fairy stories? How does a fairy story differ from a story of real life? Illustrate from any of your favourites.
