HIGHER GRADE
(1929)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Show very briefly the historical significance of five of the following events: Peace of Wedmore; Death of the Maid of Norway; Raising of the Siege of Orleans; Sailing of the Mayflower; Revocation of the Edict of Nantes; Treaty of Paris (1763); American Civil War (1861-65); Algeciras Conference (1906).
2. How far was the civilization of the Roman Empire adopted in Britain? Draw a map showing the limits of the Roman Province in Britain, two Roman roads, and three cities of the Roman Period.
3. State what you know of any three of the following battles, and of their importance in British History: Deorham, Nectansmere, Brunanburh, Carham, Hastings.
4. What were the chief effects of the Crusades on mediaeval Europe?
5. Either (a) Do you consider that Henry II or Edward I has the better claim to be considered the greatest of the Plantagenets? Or (b) Which of the first five Stewart Kings do you think did most for Scotland?
6. Explain the causes of the Hundred Years’ War, and show what part was played in it by the Scots.
7. Either (a) Explain the system of government known as “Tudor despotism,” and show how far it was suited to the times in which Henry VII and Henry VIII lived. Or (b) “The spacious times of great Elizabeth.” Why has this description been given to the reign? Do you agree with it?
8. Either (a) Describe with the aid of a sketch-map, the part played by Gustavus Adolphus in the Thirty Years War, and explain why the Peace of Westphalia is considered a landmark in European History. Or (b) Do you think that the Civil War (1642-8) was fought chiefly on religious or on constitutional issues? Draw an outline map of England, and shade it to show what parts of the country sided with King and Parliament respectively.
9. Give a brief account of any three of the following: Andrew Melville; George Villiers, first Duke of Buckingham; the Marquis of Montrose; William Penn; Anthony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury; John Carteret, Earl Granville; Lord Clive.
10. Why was the Act of Union between England and Scotland passed in 1707, and why has the Union proved permanent?
11. Discuss the importance of any one of the following writers in the history of thought on religious or political questions: Richard Hooker; John Milton; John Locke.
12. What do you know of the social and political conditions which caused the French Revolution of 1789?
13. Either (a) Explain the work done by the Congress of Vienna (1814-15), and show in what respects the arrangements which it made have since been altered. Or (b) Describe the social condition of Britain during the seven years which followed the battle of Waterloo.
14. Either (a) William Pitt the Younger—Sir Robert Peel—Mr. Gladstone. What achievements are connected with the names of any two of these? Or (b) Explain the problems which confronted the Congress of Berlin in 1878, and discuss whether its solution of them achieved “Peace with Honour.”
15. Write short notes on any two of the following: Stamp Act of 1765; Impeachment of Warren Hastings; The War with America in 1812-14; The economic development of Australia under Queen Victoria; Fenianism; Jameson Raid; Parliament Act (1911).
16. Trace the growth of self-government either in Canada or in South Africa from the accession of Queen Victoria to the present day.
