HIGHER GRADE
(1923)
ENGLISH
PAPER 1
1. Write a composition of about two pages on any one of the following subjects: The ascent of Mount Everest. Some recent advances in Science. The career and character either of Oliver Cromwell or of Queen Victoria. Naval Warfare—past and present. If you could have lived at any other period than the present, what period would you choose, and why?
2. Read the following passage carefully, and then answer the questions that follow it: Describe this island under the heads of: Its situation on the globe; Its coast-line; Its surface features (heights, streams, etc.); Its climate; Its vegetable life (trees and other plants); Its animal life. Explain the expressions “drooping crown of plumes,” “the broad belt of the world,” “hollower-bellowing ocean.” Explain the words “myriad” and “zenith” as here used. From what language does each of these words come? Point out three verses in which the sound is made an echo to the sense.
3. Distinguish the following pairs of words carefully: contrary and contradictory; important and importunate; ostentatious and ostensible; reverend and reverent; luxurious and luxuriant. What is Scots? Why is it wrong to regard Scots as a corruption of Standard English? Parse the words italicised in the following: “We heard a lark singing.” “A little singing bird.” “At the sorrow of my sweet singing.” “I’ll buy me a walking cane.” “You can’t make omelettes without breaking eggs.” Define and illustrate the following terms: alliteration, blank verse, burlesque, heroic couplet, onomatopoetic words.
4. Describe Chaucer’s humour, and illustrate it from the Prologue or from any of the Canterbury Tales that you have read.
5. Name six famous stories in verse, and give an account of one of them.
6. What do you know of the Scottish Chaucerians?
7. Describe the part played by the villain in any play of Shakespeare’s.
8. Dr. Johnson says that the sonnet is not a success in English. Discuss this dictum. Would Johnson be of the same opinion to-day?
9. Discuss either Defoe or Swift as a story-teller.
10. “Scott has drawn characters from all ranks of life from the monarch to the slave.” Discuss this, and illustrate it from your own reading.
11. Byron—George Eliot—Mark Twain—Mr. Thomas Hardy—Sir James Barrie—Mr. Rudyard Kipling. With what part of the world would you say that each of these writers was most familiar? Support your opinion by references.
12. What are the qualities that make a good prose style? Is the same style good for all subjects?
