HIGHER GRADE
(1919)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. (i) Mention one person famous in British History whose name you associate with each of the following: Religious Toleration; Privileges of the House of Commons; Reform of the Criminal Law; the Colonization of North America; African Exploration; the Utilization of Steam Power. In each instance, write a note of about three lines explaining the nature of the association; (ii) Explain, with illustrations, what is meant by any one of the following: (a) Local Government; (b) Federation; (c) Preferential Trade.
2. Illustrate the influence of the Church in the political and social history of either England or Scotland up to the year 1215.
3. Contrast the character and ambitions of Edward I. with those of Edward III.
4. Compare the causes of discontent in England in the reign of Richard II. and in the period 1815-1832.
5. Give some account of the circumstances in which the Great Barons either in England or in Scotland ceased to be a danger to the peace of the realm, referring in either case to the parallel movement in France.
6. What does the Reformation in Great Britain owe (a) to Luther and (b) to Calvin?
7. How far is it true to say that the English Constitution was changed from an arbitrary to a limited monarchy between 1603 and 1690, and to what causes do you ascribe this development?
8. Give some account of any two of the following: The political aims and ideals of John Milton; the commercial policy of Walpole; the impulse given to industry by Arkwright; the government of India in the time of Warren Hastings.
9. What were the gravest dangers that menaced this country and the British Empire either in the years 1776-1783 or in the years 1793-1805, and how far were they overcome?
10. Discuss one of the following topics: (a) “In the history of England and Great Britain, the most fortunate reigns have been those of Queens”; (b) “The work of social reform has chiefly consisted in attempts to remove the social evils brought about by the Industrial Revolution”; (c) “The British Empire is no Empire but a League of Nations.”
11. Give a brief account of any two of the following: The origins of the Greek nation; the place of the “Tyrants” in Greek history; the Persian Wars; the Constitution of Cleisthenes; the invasion of Xerxes; the career of Pericles; the decline of the power of Athens; the rise of Thebes.
12. Illustrate the political influence and importance of oratory in ancient Greece.
13. Write a short essay on one of the following subjects: (a) The influence of Greece upon the Romans; (b) The influence of ancient Rome upon modern Europe.
14. Give a short sketch of the career of any two of the following: Tarquin the Elder; Hannibal; Scipio Africanus the Younger; Sulla; Pompey the Great; Antony; the Emperor Augustus.
15. What events or dates do you suggest as most conveniently marking (a) the beginning and (b) the end of one of the following: The Dark Ages; the Renaissance; the Reformation; the ascendancy of France under the Bourbons? State your reasons for your choice, and indicate any possible alternative events or dates.
16. Illustrate and explain the hostility of the Papacy towards the Empire in the Middle Ages.
17. Sketch the history of the extension of European Power since the 15th century either to South America or to North and Central Africa.
18. Write a brief explanatory note on any two of the following: The partitions of the Empire of Charlemagne; the exploits of the Normans before they invaded England; the Great Schism; the reign of Philip II. of Spain; the rise of Sweden as a European Power; the history of Austria from 1648 to 1763; the effect of the French Revolution on domestic politics in Great Britain.
19. Give some account of the principles, and the results, of the settlement of Europe either in 1815 or in 1878.
20. What changes took place in the form of government in France between 1830 and 1871? What were the circumstances leading up to each change?
21. What were the causes of the Civil War in the United States of America (1861-1865)? Illustrate your answer by reference to American poetry or fiction dealing with the causes of quarrel.
