LOWER GRADE
(1911)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying map of the World: Insert the following names in their proper places: Straits of Magellan, Aconcagua, The Gold Coast, Cuba, Cook Strait, Java, Patagonia, Korea, Ruwenzori, Pamir. Insert and name the rivers Niger, Danube, Indus, Zambesi, Murray. Show by a dot the position of the following towns, and write the name of each close to the dot: Port Said, Canton, Auckland, San Francisco, Vladivostock, Valparaiso, Aden, New Orleans, Quebec. Draw a line through all places the time of which is 5 hours later than Greenwich time.
2. On the accompanying map of Europe: Show by shading the hilly regions over 1,000 feet above sea-level. Insert the following names in their proper places: Etna, Sea of Azov, Loire, Balkans, Corsica, Montenegro. Show by a dot the position of the following towns: Florence, Odessa, Seville, Bordeaux, Antwerp, Munich, Triest, Upsala, Salonika.
3. On the accompanying map of the British Isles: Shade the most important coal-fields. Write “Sheep,” “Tin,” “Linen,” “Pottery” over places noted for these things. Show by a dot the position of the following towns: Inverness, St. Andrews, Motherwell, Rothesay, Cork, Galway, Hull, Oxford, Swansea, Leeds.
4. What are the chief shipbuilding centres of the British Isles? What advantages for this industry does each centre possess?
5. Describe the climate of the British Isles under the headings temperature, rainfall, winds and currents.
6. What geographical causes contributed to the varying importance of Berwick, Dunfermline, and Perth at different periods of Scottish History?
7. Describe the effect of environment on the manner of life of any two of the following peoples: the Eskimos, the Dutch, the South-Sea Islanders, the Australian aborigines, the Patagonians, the Bengalese.
8. Select two of the following towns and show how their importance depends largely on their situation: New York, Vienna, Constantinople, Canton, Lyons, Chicago, Bombay, Winnipeg.
9. Describe any methods of determining the latitude of a place. State the latitude and longitude of your own school.
10. Tell what you know of recent exploration either in the Arctic, or in the Antarctic, or in Central Asia.
