HIGHER GRADE
1913
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER: 1
1. (a) In the space provided below the map draw a section along the River Kin glass. The source and the mouth of the stream and its confluence with the Allt Hallater are marked on the space. (b) Is there any indication of delta formation in Loch Etive? If so, name the places. (c) Draw two rough sketches showing the appearance of the ridge running from Beinn Eunaich, through Beinn a’ Chochuill, Aonach Breac, and A’ Ghruach, to Loch Etive (1) as seen from Ben Cruachan, (2) as seen from Beinn Mheadhonach (N.W. of Ben Cruachan and on opposite side of Loch Etive). (d) Taking Ben Cruachan as the whole area bounded by Loch Etive, Glen Noe, Allt Mhoille, head of Loch Awe, Pass of Brander, and River Awe, describe the appearance of the mountain. Refer particularly to the general appearance of the whole mass, the presence or absence of a conical summit, narrow ridges, coires, precipices, contrasted types of valleys.
2. Give a brief account of glaciers and glacial action. What evidence is there for thinking that there were once many glaciers in this country?
3. What is meant by "natural regions"? Select one of the following, and show how it may be divided into natural regions: Europe, North America, Asia, Australia? Explain the basis (climatic, structural, &c.) of your classification.
4. What are map projections? Why can no map projection give an absolutely correct representation of the surface of the earth? Mention three projections, state their merits and defects, and sketch roughly for one projection a network of meridians and parallels.
5. From an examination of the accompanying map, which shows the isobars recorded on a day in winter, describe the weather that may be expected (a) in Scotland, (b) in France. Refer to temperature, rainfall, direction and force of wind, fog, sunshine, &c.
6. Write a short essay on one of the following: Beet-sugar production in Europe; wheat-growing in Canada; cotton cultivation in India. Pay attention mainly to the geographical aspect of the subject.
7. Give a brief sketch of the history of exploration in modern times of one of the following: The North Polar Regions, the South Polar Regions, the Nile, Australia, Central Asia.
8. "The strategic towns of olden times have evolved into the important railway centres of to-day." Illustrate this statement by the discussion of any town in Britain.
9. Select any two of the following towns, and show how geographical conditions have controlled their situation and growth: Bombay, Cardiff, San Francisco, Melbourne, Constantinople, Cape Town.
10. Describe the extent of the Ottoman Empire to-day. What additional territories in Europe did Turkey formerly possess? What geographical causes contributed to the spread and the decline of the Ottoman power?
11. Draw a sketch map of one of the following: The Pacific Coast of the United States, North Coast of Africa, East Coast of Australia, South Coast of Asia from the Red Sea to Ceylon. Show the high ground near the coast by shading, insert the lower courses of the chief rivers, and indicate six towns. Add a brief note describing the climate of the coast selected.
