HIGHER GRADE
(1911)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. On the accompanying chart place the following in their proper compartments: The Colonization of Newfoundland; the rebellion of Cade; the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella; the Campaigns of Frederick the Great; Wiclif’s translation of the Bible; the Thirty Years’ War; the Popish Plot; the First Partition of Poland; Wilkes and the North Briton; sack of Cadiz by the English; the rise and decline of the Elizabethan drama; the treaty of Northampton; the reign of Peter the Great; the Methodist Revival; the Porteous Riots; the fall of Sebastopol; the Waverley Novels; the battle of Navarino. Add a note on any one of these, bringing out its connection with the general history of the century.
2. What different races or peoples were gradually amalgamated to constitute the Scottish nation between the coming of St. Columba in 563 and the beginning of the struggle with England in 1286? What evidences of variety of race are still observable?
3. When did the English first gain a foothold in Ireland? Indicate shortly the part played by Ireland in English History in the reign of Elizabeth, William III, or the Napoleonic War.
4. Sketch the character and career of any two of the following: Queen Margaret of Scotland; William Wallace; Henry V.; Henry VII.; John Hampden; Oliver Cromwell; John Milton; Antony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury; the Elder Pitt; Edmund Burke; Arthur Wellesley; George Canning; Lord Palmerston.
5. How did the Plantagenets come to hold so large a part of France, and what became of their French dominion?
6. Give a rapid sketch of events in Scotland from 1688 to 1707.
7. Why did the Americans rebel against the government of George III.? Why did France and Spain come to their assistance?
8. What were the feelings aroused in England by the outbreak of the French Revolution? Illustrate by reference to the young poets of the day and to Edmund Burke. How was Pitt drawn into war with France, and what success attended the war to the peace of Amiens?
9. What is meant by the Industrial Revolution? How far was it beneficial, how far injurious to the mass of Englishmen and Scotsmen of the time?
10. Indicate the interest taken in the politics of their day by two of the following writers, and the side which they took: The author of Piers Plowman; Sir Thomas More; Edmund Spenser; John Milton; John Dryden; Dr. Johnson; William Cowper; Lord Byron; Percy Bysshe Shelley; Lord Tennyson.
