HIGHER GRADE
(1938)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Show briefly the historical significance of five of the following: Landing of St. Augustine; Treaty of Northampton (1328); Deposition of Richard II; Marriage of Ferdinand and Isabella; Sailing of the Mayflower; Toleration Act (1689); Impeachment of Warren Hastings; Battle of Waterloo; Congress of Berlin (1878); Parliament Act (1911).
2. Describe the chief voyages and settlements of the Norsemen, with particular reference to the British Isles. Explain the effects of the Norman Conquest both on England and on Scotland.
3. What were the questions at issue in the Investiture Contest between the Papacy and the Empire and how were they settled at the Concordat of Worms? Why did the Hundred Years’ War break out under Edward III, and why was it resumed under Henry V? Describe the chief changes in the social conditions of England and Scotland during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
4. What do you understand by the term "Tudor despotism"? Explain and illustrate its chief features. Trace the main outlines of Anglo-Scottish relations between 1503 and 1560.
5. Do you consider that the English Civil War of 1642 was due chiefly to religious or to political causes? Give your reasons. Estimate the influence of Louis XIV both on France and on Europe.
6. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: Erasmus; Thomas Cromwell; Emperor Charles V; Cardinal David Beaton; Sir Francis Drake; Gustavus Adolphus; William Paterson; Henry St. John, Viscount Bolingbroke; James Wolfe.
7. Do you consider that the loss of the American colonies could have been avoided if George III and his ministers had shown better statesmanship? Give your reasons. "The Industrial Revolution was not an event but a process." Illustrate this statement from your knowledge of the development in the nineteenth century of transport, conditions of work in factories.
8. Explain the need for parliamentary reform before 1832 and show how it was brought about in that year.
9. Why were the years after 1840 known as the "Hungry Forties"? To what do you attribute the return of prosperity? Explain why the term "Year of Revolution" has been applied to 1848 and estimate how far the revolutionary movement was successful. What were the causes of the Indian Mutiny and what were its principal results?
10. Discuss the historical importance of two of the following: Edmund Burke; William Wilberforce; Horatio Nelson; Dr. Chalmers; Gibbon Wakefield; Giuseppe Garibaldi; Louis Pasteur; Abraham Lincoln; C. S. Parnell; Guglielmo Marconi.
11. Explain the chief stages in the growth of Canadian self-government from 1837 to the present time. To what extent has the League of Nations been a success? Give some account of the Indian Reforms of 1935 and of the difficulties encountered in carrying them out.
