LOWER GRADE
(1909)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out, and punctuate, the passage for dictation.
2. Write a composition of about two pages on any one of these subjects: Write an imaginary account of a shipwreck, in the form of a letter from a survivor. An English boy, who has come to Scotland to finish his school education, writes home describing what strikes him most in the manners, character and habits of his new class-mates. Describe any scientific experiment or series of experiments, or any geographical excursion, in which you have yourself taken part.
3. Read the following poem from beginning to end. Tell Sir Humphrey Gilbert’s fate in your own words. Point out the metaphor which runs through the poem, bringing together all the lines in which it appears.
4. Turn the first passage into direct speech, and the second into reported speech, adding notes to show the exact meaning of fanaticism, wreathe, sentiments, muster, lieges. Or parse the words in italics in the given sentence. Distinguish the meanings of the following pairs of words, and make sentences to show their correct use: paternal, fatherly; human, humane; new, novel; mutual, common; quantity, number.
5. Give some account of any famous allegory that you have read. Name the author, and his period. Tell briefly how the story runs, and what is its inner meaning. Or mention songs dealing with any five of these themes: Spring, War, Lovers Parting, Birds and Flowers, Country Life, Freedom, Death, the Fairy World. Quote a stanza or two from one of them. Name the author of the song you quote, and say what you know about him. Or mention, with author’s names and periods, any three historical novels, poems or plays, that have helped you to picture the life of England or of Scotland at any period in the past. What light do they throw on the times they describe?
6. Arrange the following events chronologically in three columns, according to the century and the country in which each happened: Battle of Largs, Dissolution of the Monasteries, Discovery of the New World, Seven Years’ War, Jack Cade’s Rebellion, the Cession of Orkney to Scotland, the First Scottish Parliament, the First Hague Conference, the Campaigns of Montrose, the Conquest of Bengal, the Campaigns of Garibaldi, the Battle of Langside, Magna Charta, Authorised Version of the Bible, the Reign of Louis XIV. of France. Select one event from each column, and write a paragraph about it.
7. Arrange the following persons according to the century and the country in which each flourished: James I. of Scotland, Copernicus, Martin Luther, Viscount Dundee, the Black Prince, Peter the Great, John Milton, Thomas Chalmers, Wiclif, the Regent Moray, the elder Pitt, Joan of Arc, George Washington, James Watt, Lord Bacon. Write a short paragraph on one person taken from each column, showing the historical importance of the person chosen.
8. Draw a rough outline map of the New World and mark on it the Equator, the Tropics, the Arctic Circle; the rivers Mackenzie, St. Lawrence, Missouri-Mississippi, Amazon and La Plata; the Rocky Mountains, Appalachian Range, and Andes; the position of New York, Quebec, and Buenos Ayres; and show by shading the part of N. America where wheat is grown.
9. Draw a rough outline map of Scotland and mark on it Glenmore, the southern edge of the Grampians, the Sidlaw Hills, Ochil Hills, Campsie Fells and Lowther Hills; the rivers Tay, Clyde and Tweed; the position of Wick, Aberdeen, Perth, Stirling and Dumfries; and show the coalfields by shading.
10. Enumerate, in order of importance, the chief sources of the world’s supply of wool and cotton; and infer the climatic conditions which are favourable to the production of each of these commodities.
11. Locate any five of the following towns carefully and explain the causes which have contributed to their importance: Carstairs, Southampton, St. Etienne, Lille, Vienna, Salonica, Smyrna, Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Durban, Halifax (N.S.), St. Louis, Havana, Valparaiso.
