LOWER GRADE
(1893)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage read for dictation.
2. Paraphrase the following lines so as to exhibit their full meaning: The Training of a Statesman.
3. Explain the force of the suffixes to be found in the passage quoted in Question 2. Which of these suffixes are Teutonic? Give the derivation of four of the following: governor, temper, woman, perfect, degree, spinster, pagan, loyal.
4. Analyse the sentence: “Granted that we could safely keep silence, it would be nothing less than disgraceful to desert a man who is sustained only by the hope that we shall aid him.”
5. Parse fully the words italicised in the following: (a) Let us pray. (b) They trusted each other. (c) The shorter, the better. (d) I know I should speak the truth, but it is sometimes difficult. (e) I do not like being taken to the dentist's. (f) I had rather starve than steal. (g) Give me a swimming-belt, one of the same kind as I had before.
6. Give the plurals of fox, potato, simile, pulley, seraph, roof, half, grotto, deer, basis, series, daughter-in-law, maidservant, manservant. What is the difference in meaning between pennies and pence, cloths and clothes, dies and dice? Give the feminines corresponding to buck, stag, colt, boar, abbot, actor, hero, executor.
7. Explain the meaning of the terms: part of speech, verb of incomplete predication, phrase, gerund, collective noun. Say whether each of the following italicised clauses is substantival, adjectival, or adverbial: (a) He asked me where I was going. (b) Where I am going the air is very good. (c) I ask you if you did it? (d) The man who did it will be punished. (e) It is not so easy as you suppose.
8. When and where did the following writers live? Describe, very briefly, one of the chief works of each of them: Chaucer, Hume, Shelley, Spenser, Newton, Richardson, Swift, Lyndsay, Cowper, Dryden, Ben Jonson.
9. Describe fully one of the following: (a) Chaucer’s Prologue to the Canterbury Tales. (b) Malory’s History of King Arthur. (c) More’s Utopia. (d) The first two cantos of Book I. of the Fairy Queen. (e) Julius Caesar, or The Merchant of Venice. (f) Book I. of Paradise Lost. (g) The Vicar of Wakefield. (h) Old Mortality, or Kenilworth. (i) The Ancient Mariner. (j) any one of The Idylls of the King.
10. Point out and correct any faults in the following sentences: (a) I intended to have gone to London, but I will likely be prevented. (b) Already embittered by his poverty, this new blow quite overwhelmed him. (c) He is a man whom I should say was one of the most incompetent that ever was raised to that position. (d) Thou lovest, but ne’er knew love’s sad satiety. (e) This vessel is the sixteenth large Atlantic greyhound which the Fairfield Company has built.
