LOWER GRADE
(1923)
GEOGRAPHY
PAPER 3
1. On the accompanying map of part of the British Isles: Print the following names in their proper places: Sidlaws, Snowdon, Londonderry, Kirkwall, Montrose, Dunfermline, R. Tyne, R. Garry, R. Spey, R. Liffey, R. Dee (Cheshire), Strathmore. Draw lines to show the position of the southern boundary of the Highlands, the Forth and Clyde Canal, the Caledonian Canal, and print each name along the appropriate line. Draw, very carefully, either the railway line from Edinburgh to Aberdeen by the coastal route; or the railway line from Perth to Inverness by the direct route. Mark the two towns named in either case. Outline in firm dotted lines the basins of the Tay and the Yorkshire Ouse (excluding the Trent).
2. On the accompanying map of the world: Print the following names in their proper places: California, Florida, Borneo, Haiti, Gold Coast. Shade small areas producing large quantities of each of the following for export (one area for each product), and print the name of the crop beside the shaded area: rice, oranges, coffee. The latitudes and longitudes of four important towns are as follows: (1) 23° S., 43° W.; (2) 37½° S., 145° E.; (3) 37½° N., 6° W.; (4) 6½° N., 79½° E. Mark the position of each town with a cross, and print the name close to the cross.
3. Select one of the following counties: Devonshire, or Argyll, or Kerry. Describe the physical features of the county selected, and write notes on the climate and the occupations of the people, naming two towns.
4. Name one area in Scotland, one in England and one in Ireland where shipbuilding is carried on extensively, and explain as fully as you can the advantages which each area named possesses for the industry.
5. Select any three of the following, state the position of each of the three as precisely as you can, and explain in what way they are interesting: Staffa, Giant’s Causeway, The Peak of Derbyshire, Ben Nevis, The Weald of Kent, The Falls of Foyers.
6. Name areas in Scotland (one area for each product) where each of the following is produced on a large scale: potatoes, small fruits, dried fish. Explain why the places you mention are suitable for the production of these articles.
7. Draw, with the help of the map used in Section B, a map of Africa north of the Equator, to fill about half a page in your book. Show the Suez Canal, Lake Chad, the courses of the Nile and the Niger; and mark and name the towns of Port Said, Timbuktu and Tangier. Name also Morocco and Abyssinia.
8. Labrador and the British Isles lie in approximately the same latitude, but their climates differ greatly. Point out the main differences of climate and explain the causes of these differences.
9. Compare and contrast Canada and Australia briefly in respect of natural resources, occupations of the people, and export trade.
10. Till the end of the fifteenth century Venice supplied Europe with pepper; by the early part of the sixteenth century the pepper trade had shifted to Lisbon, and the price had dropped to one-half. How can you explain these facts?
