LOWER GRADE
(1919)
HISTORY
PAPER: 1
1. Place the following events in the century appropriate to each on the accompanying table: The death of Edward I. of England; the accession of Philip II. of Spain; the mission of St. Columba; the struggle of King Alfred with the Danes; the reign of Edward the Confessor; the Porteous Riots; the capture of William the Lion; the accession of Louis XIV. of France; the battle of Inkerman; the battle of Nectansmere; the battle of Agincourt; the battle of Largs; the War of American Independence; the treaty of Northampton; the Scottish Reformation; the career of President Lincoln.
2. State briefly in what circumstances and for what reasons: (a) England and Scotland became more friendly in the 16th century; (b) Colonies were planted in North America in the 17th century; (c) Factory Acts were passed in the 19th century.
3. What parts did (a) Piets, (b) Scots, (c) Angles or Saxons, and (d) Northmen play in the history of Scotland before the reign of Malcolm Canmore?
4. Why was a castle so important in old wars? Name four famous Scottish castles, explaining why the geographical position of each made it historically important.
5. Tell the story of any two of the following battles, explaining why each of the two was fought and indicating its most important effects on Scottish history: Carham, Stirling Bridge, Killiecrankie, Culloden.
6. Give a short account of any two of the following: The reasons for the flight of Queen Mary into England; the Bishops’ Wars; the conditions on which the Parliaments of Scotland and England were united.
7. In what poems or novels does Sir Walter Scott depict any two of the following: The reign of James IV.; the Scottish Reformation; the ’45; the civil war in the time of Montrose; Border feuds? Give a brief account of what you have read in Scott’s writings about the two subjects you select.
8. What causes (a) helped and (b) retarded the growth of Scottish prosperity in the 18th century?
9. How was the Parliamentary franchise in Scotland affected (a) by the Reform Act of 1832, (b) by the Representation of the People Act of 1918?
10. Give some account of any two of the following: Moses, Lycurgus, Alexander the Great, Coriolanus, Pompey the Great, Charlemagne, St. Augustine, Henry V. of England, Cardinal Wolsey, Louis XIV. of France, Lord Clive, Dr. Johnson.
11. Tell how any three of the following kings of England came to die a violent death: William II., Richard I., Edward II., Edward V., Richard III.
12. What events in the history of England are connected with any three of the following places: Jaffa, Sluys, Poitiers, Cadiz, Zutphen?
13. Give some account of the growth and development of any two of the following: The woollen industry, the iron industry, the Poor Law, Elementary Education.
14. How did James VI. come to be King of England as well as of Scotland? Give reasons for his unpopularity with the English people.
15. Write notes on any three of the following: Ship Money, the Protectorate of Richard Cromwell, the Popish Plot, the beginnings of the National Debt, the Treaty of Utrecht.
16. Why did the North American colonies break away from Great Britain?
17. From what various dangers did (a) Nelson and (b) Wellington save this country?
18. Give some account of any two of the following: Sir Robert Peel, Sir Henry Lawrence, Florence Nightingale, Lord Macaulay, Dr. Livingstone, General Gordon.
