LOWER GRADE
(1904)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write out and punctuate the passage for dictation.
2. Write an essay on one of the following subjects: (a) The Newspaper: what are the chief kinds of reading that it contains, and for what is each valuable? (b) The life of a rat on board ship.
3. Express in your own language the meaning of the following passage and show how the illustration bears out the main argument: "But we, frail wights! whose sight cannot sustain..."
4. Parse the words italicised in the foregoing passage. Make a general analysis of the second stanza from "The means" to "and fair."
5. Write short notes on five of the following words: riches, songster, myself, ought, former grandfather, forlorn, apron, aside, naughty.
6. Write ten short sentences using the following words correctly: embody, leeway, appliance, automatically, judicial, guerdon, satellite, insinuate, pertinent, wreak.
7. Point out the faults in the following and re-write each sentence correctly: (a) I shall have great pleasure in accepting your kind invitation... (e) Erected to the memory of John Phillips accidentally shot as a mark of affection by his brother.
8. Give an account of any famous description in verse or prose of a horse or the delights of country life.
9. Give some account of the reign of one of the following kings: William I., Henry IV., Richard III., James II., William III.
10. Write short papers on two of the following: The Celtic Church, Roman Civilisation in Britain, Danish Settlements in England, The Loss of Normandy, The Causes of the Hundred Years’ War.
11. Give some account of the part played in history by one of the following statesmen: Burleigh, Clarendon, Bolingbroke, Walpole, Fox, Palmerston.
12. Describe the natural advantages and disadvantages of Great Britain in industrial and commercial supremacy.
13. Describe and discuss routes and methods for reaching the North Pole.
14. Draw a sketch map of Korea and explain its importance to Russia and Japan.
15. Say where ten of the following are situated and mention their notable features: Amiens, Auckland, Banbury, Bayonne, New Caledonia, Corinth, Dawson City, Esquimault, Fez, Fontainebleau.
