HIGHER GRADE
(1915)
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a composition, of about two pages, on any one of the following: (a) Autumn in Scotland. (b) Westminster Abbey. (c) Discuss, in the form of a dialogue between a Scotsman and an Englishman, the character and policy of Edward I. of England. (d) Should boys and girls follow the same curriculum in school?
2a. Bring out quite briefly, in your own words, the leading thought of each of the three paragraphs in the following passage.
2b. Explain as many of the historical and geographical allusions as you can.
3. Select from the above passage examples of (a) Metaphor; (b) Simile; (c) the use of Synonyms; (d) Rhetorical Question; (e) Antithesis. In each case add a very brief note on the effect of the figure employed.
4a. Reproduce in modern English prose, adding short notes on the form, meaning or accentuation of the words in italics.
4b. Give the precise meaning of the following words as used in the passage set in Question 2, adding the derivation where you can: exotic, embellished, isolated, chivalric, usurped, peninsula, annihilation, inundation, edifices, memento.
5. Of what plays of Shakespeare are these the heroines: Juliet, Portia, Rosalind, Beatrice, Miranda? Compare any two of these characters carefully; indicate your own preference, and bring out what you think Shakespeare admired in woman.
6. Write a comment on the following sonnet on Milton, explaining the allusions to his life and writings.
7. “English poetry is full of the colour and odour of the sea.” How far does this seem to you to be true? Illustrate your answer from your own reading of English poetry.
8. Discuss and illustrate the humour of any one of the following authors: Addison, Swift, Burns, Goldsmith, Lamb, Jane Austen, Dickens.
9. “Scott’s minor characters are often more interesting than his heroes and heroines.” Discuss and illustrate.
10. Give a brief account of the matter and the style of any one of the following: Keats’s Eve of St. Agnes; Tennyson’s Palace of Art; Arnold’s Sohrab and Rustum; Carlyle’s Essay on Burns; Macaulay’s Essay on Warren Hastings; George Eliot’s Silas Marner.
