HIGHER GRADE
1897
ENGLISH
PAPER: 1
1. Write a short essay of about two pages on one of the following subjects: (а) The changes which steam-power has wrought on the conditions of life in our century. (б) Which is the most useful foreign language to study?
2. Paraphrase the following poem, so as to bring out the full meaning: When to the sessions of sweet silent thought I summon up remembrance of things past, I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought, And with old woes new wail my dear time’s waste Then can I drown an eye, unused to flow, For precious friends hid in death’s dateless night, And weep afresh love’s long-since-cancelled woe, And moan the expense of many a vanish’d sight. Then can I grieve at grievances foregone, And heavily from woe to woe tell o’er The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan, Which I new pay as if not paid before: —But if the while I think on thee, dear Friend, All losses are restored, and sorrows end.
3. Give the derivations (a) of ten words of classical or romance origin, and (b) of ten words of native origin, in the above sonnet.
4. Make a general analysis of the following sentence, so as to show exactly how the clauses are related to one another: “Outraged as he was, Elizabeth believed that with Flanders still in revolt, and France longing for her alliance to enable it to seize the Low Countries, the Spanish King could not afford to quarrel with her; and her trust in his inactivity seemed justified by the jealousy with which he regarded, and succeeded in foiling, the project for a Catholic revolt which was to have followed a descent of the Guises on the English coast.” Parse the words italicized in the following sentences: (a) You had better go. (b) No one else had a word to say. (c) I needs must wait.
5. Distinguish carefully, with illustrative examples, between (a) weak and strong verbs, (b) infinitive and gerund, (c) synthetic and analytic languages, (d) metaphor and simile, (e) accidence and syntax.
6. Explain the following terms as applied to style: diffuse, elliptical, terse, ironical, pedantic, aphoristic, colloquial, euphemistic, florid, bombastic.
7. Improve the following sentences, and give reasons for the alterations you make: (a) Round the romantic Linn of Avon hangs a rich vein of legendary lore. (b) Though such faults undoubtedly deteriorate from his greatness, he yet rises supreme among his contemporaries. (c) This uncle had usurped the kingdom, while Hamlet was grieving at his father’s death, and shortly afterwards married his mother. (d) No one will affirm but that the language of Chaucer seems not yet to have attained its manhood, but there is a glorious future in store for her. (e) Another feature of the bay is the rocks being honeycombed with caves, that enter into serious competition with the bathing-machines, which, however, will be found duly drawn up on the beach used by both sexes, while one strip is set apart for men and another for ladies.
8. Take any ten of the following characters, and name the works in which they appear: Iago, Lady Castlewood, Madame Eglantine, Mr. Burchell, Elaine, Abdiel, Cressida, Mr. Peggotty, Laertes, Meg Merrilies, Palamon, Beelzebub, Pistol, Dugald Dalgetty, Duessa, Merlin, Jessica, Alan Breck, Becky Sharp, Amyas Leigh. Describe briefly any two of these characters.
9. Define, as accurately as you can, the following kinds of poetry: epic, ballad, narrative poem; ode, elegy, idyll; sonnet, hymn, song. Name an example of each kind from English Literature, and give a short description of its contents and metre.
